Post Title: Career Question: Women with a Family in Clinical Med Physics?
Post Content: I am interested in a career in clinical medical physics. However, I am woman and do hope to have a family. My significant other also works in healthcare and will work full-time normal hours as well. What are your experiences with raising children/having a family with a clinical career? When did you decide to have children? With the residency requirement, it is hard to decide when is best to do so. 
Comments: 
I'm a clinical diagnostic medical physicist. I have two children, who are currently ages 7 and 9. My son was born towards the beginning of my residency. My daughter was born almost a year after I finished my residency. I will say this: There is no perfect time to have a child, but there are ways to make it work while still having a fulfilling career. There have been times when my kids have come to work with me off-hours (they actually liked sitting in the front of the mobile mammography coach eating trail mix and watching TV while I tested the mammo unit in the back), and they have sat through some of my lectures. If you want to discuss more, I'm happy to share some of my experiences with you.
I know plenty of people in the medical physics community who have young children and are raising them without issue. Some have full-time nannies that they've hired (you can comfortably afford this on a physicist's salary in the US), some have family that helps out, some use conventional daycare systems, some have part-time jobs instead of full-time...but there are plenty of them and they get the job done. It's doable, with trade offs on both sides: you will miss some child-related stuff because of inescapable work obligations, and you also may not be able to make progress on some clinical projects as fast because of course you want to be out of work at a reasonable time to be with your kids.
On average it's a 40-50 hour/wk job which is typical for any white collar profession. However, you can end up working longer if you don't carefully schedule things to work around clinical hours. Your happiness will depend on your organizational skills and your employer's expectation. Keep in mind I'm a guy, but I'd say its doable.




Hi, I agree with everyone else here. I had my first kid just after starting my first job, and my second kid 2 years after. I use conventional daycare/school with after school program, and take turns with my husband in drop offs and pick ups (we are pretty much equal in responsibilities). I still travel a few times a year. But like ericvt says, there are trade-offs, and we have to learn to accept them (not easy at times). Any time is as perfect as any other to have kids! 
If you work in Canada, you'll get year-long maternity leaves (going to be 1.5 soon), and I know few of them who work significantly more than 40 hours/week unless they want to. 
