Post Title: [Training Tuesday] - Weekly thread for questions about grad school, residency, and general career topics 12/21/2021
Post Content: This is the place to ask questions about graduate school, training programs, or general basic career topics. If you are just learning about the field and want to know if it is something you should explore, this thread is probably the correct place for those first few questions on your mind.

Examples: 

* "I majored in Surf Science and Technology in undergrad, is Medical Physics right for me?"
* "I can't decide between Biomedical Engineering and Medical Physics..."
* "Do Medical Physicists get free CT scans for life?"
* "Masters vs. PhD"
* "How do I prepare for Residency interviews?"
Comments: 
Hey all, I'm a senior graduating in the spring with a physics BS and I'm looking to go into medical physics. I need to take an upper level physics elective to graduate but I'm thinking of substituting it out with a nuclear engineering class. Does any one have reccomendations or ideas on what kinds of topics or classes would give good knowledge or prep me for medical physics grad school?
	https://www.aapm.org/students/prospective.asp
	Particle physics is a good one if it’s available.
When do residencies usually notify candidates that they’ve scored an interview?
	Very institution specific, some places likely have already reached out, others will wait until January/February
Hey everyone! I'm currently in undergrad as an astrophysics major, but I plan on pursuing medical physics in grad school as I've recently learned how miserable the field of astronomy is...

I was actually just got rejected from an REU, and this got me wondering - are there any internship positions (even unpaid) I could take to help strengthen myself in the field of medical physics this summer? Upon googling, all I got as "internships" were basically clinical jobs that required degrees.

Thanks for reading, I'd appreciate any feedback.
	Check out the Summer Undergraduate Fellowship Program or the DREAM program through AAPM

[http://gaf.aapm.org/](http://gaf.aapm.org/)

I'd also check with any med phys graduate programs that you might want attend to see if they have any undergrad opportunities available.
	The Northwest Medical Physics Center has usually hosted a few undergrads for a summer internship. That got canned the last 2 years but it might open up again this summer.
		I'm in California, but will look into it. Thanks so much!
	I'm an undergrad (so don't take my advice as certain truth), but I just contacted medical physics researchers connected with my university to see if they would be open to having an undergraduate student be part of their lab or volunteer with their group.
Can anyone speak on the quality of Oregon Health Science University and their masters program, as well as Duke or VCU. I’m looking for good clinical experience to prepare for residency application
	I'd recommend looking at the University of Kentucky also! Small program of 7-8 students, lots of clinical experience and typically 4 dedicated residency spaces for their students.
		Agree with this, if I was set on a masters and wanted a lot of clinical experience then I’d check out Kentucky or LSU (not ultimately what I did, but if I had different career goals then this would’ve been my top choice).
	But Duke is a very solid program and will prepare you well for anything you want to do.
	Can’t speak to the other two, but Duke is a lot less clinically focused than other programs and more foundational based. The main reason for that being your clinical training comes during residency. With that being said, the opportunity for clinical experience at Duke is there, but you need to seek it out.
	I’ve also heard really great things about Hofstra’s clinical experience.
	If the grad program is CAMPEP accredited you'll get what you need.  Can't get into most residencies without it.
https://www.campep.org/campeplstgrad.asp
After that residency is mostly done by a matching program.
https://natmatch.com/medphys/
