Post Title: [Training Tuesday] - Weekly thread for questions about grad school, residency, and general career topics 11/09/2021
Post Content: This is the place to ask questions about graduate school, training programs, or general basic career topics. If you are just learning about the field and want to know if it is something you should explore, this thread is probably the correct place for those first few questions on your mind.

Examples: 

* "I majored in Surf Science and Technology in undergrad, is Medical Physics right for me?"
* "I can't decide between Biomedical Engineering and Medical Physics..."
* "Do Medical Physicists get free CT scans for life?"
* "Masters vs. PhD"
* "How do I prepare for Residency interviews?"
Comments: 
Not sure if someone has already asked this question but figured I’d give it a shot.

About to finish my BA in physics in 1-2 semesters. Would that be enough to be able to apply for a master’s program? Would a BS be better or some other degree? Just want to make sure I’m taking the right route.
	In the route to become a licensed medical physicist, you need: 1) either a undergraduate degree in physics, or coursework equivalent to a minors in physics 2) MS or PhD from a CAMPEP accredited program 3) Residency.

Most people in MS programs will have a BS/BA. There are some who have an MS in some field of physics (some of my colleagues were from applied physics and optics MS programs). I personally was accepted into a few reputable programs as a non-traditional applicant who worked in finance for a bit after my BS in physics. I know many other who followed a similar route. I've heard from many here that BA or BS is irrelevant, the coursework is what matters. 

If you do well in your BA, have solid letters of recommendation, hopefully some amount relevant experience, and interview well, I'd be shocked if you didn't get accepted into a decent program.
Hey all older career changer here. I turn 38 this year. Would you consider 38 too old to apply to DMP programs? Is this a career one could work into their 70’s since it’s not overly physical demanding? Any advice or info you can provide I would greatly appreciate.
When in the match, when do interview requests start going out? When do the admissions committees begin reviewing applications?
	Residency interviews usually start in early January. 

There is an interview calendar at [https://www.sdampp.org/calendar.php](https://www.sdampp.org/calendar.php)

The current cycle's dates might not be on the calendar yet, but rolling back a year or two on that calendar should give an idea of the dates.
	[https://natmatch.com/medphys/schedule.html](https://natmatch.com/medphys/schedule.html)
		Thank you, but this link doesn't really answer my question of when the interviews typically begin.
			Interviews will typically start at the beginning of the year.
My courses for next semester (undegrad) will be 
QM 
Mathematical physics
And I cannot decide whether to take thermodynamics or a programming course. I have the option to take one in the spring and one in the summer but idk since my applications due in January
	I agree with quanstrom's sentiment here. I find myself having to fill some gaps in my CS knowledge more than anything else. 

I certainly haven't really used any thermodynamics beyond what you'd learn in an Intro to Physics course. I did find some of statistical mechanics taught in my thermo course useful, but that's more of a "helpful to better interpret this niche concept I only saw once in my MS but you don't really need"-kinda thing.
	I don't think I've ever used thermo after I was forced to take it as an undergrad; on a weekly basis I wish I had taken more CS classes when I had the chance.
		How many undergrad physics courses did you have taken when you applied ??
			I don't remember; it's not important for applications. It's normal for seniors to apply, get a conditional acceptance until graduation and course work completion.
