Post Title: [Training Tuesday] - Weekly thread for questions about grad school, residency, and general career topics 08/31/2021
Post Content: This is the place to ask questions about graduate school, training programs, or general basic career topics. If you are just learning about the field and want to know if it is something you should explore, this thread is probably the correct place for those first few questions on your mind.

Examples: 

* "I majored in Surf Science and Technology in undergrad, is Medical Physics right for me?"
* "I can't decide between Biomedical Engineering and Medical Physics..."
* "Do Medical Physicists get free CT scans for life?"
* "Masters vs. PhD"
* "How do I prepare for Residency interviews?"
Comments: 
I'm an undergrad thinking of a career in medical physics. I recently had an advisor tell me that I would benefit from studying machine learning. Is this true in medical physics? I'm looking into the therapy side of MP. Thanks!
	Its probably true in general. Any relation between the latest tech and the clinic seems to be where medical physicists excel. I would expect that python and general programming, as well as machine learning knowledge will become a part of the practice within a decade.
	Machine learning is a hot topic in probably every technical industry in the world and you’d probably never regret taking classes in it.
I hold a medical physics MS (non-CAMPEP) and have been working clinically for 2 years outside the US. I'm currently thinking of going for a PhD, partly because I miss research and partly to improve career progression within my country. I unfortunately have no publications, and was recently told in a zoom call with a professor that that may severely undermine my application since I failed to publish my master's thesis. How true do you think this is? I do think I have a fairly strong application apart from the lack of a peer-reviewed publication.
	Lots of people start PhD programs without an authorship. Obviously it is better to have a paper than to not have one, but in this case I think that the professor was being dramatic. You have an MS for which you did a thesis; that is evidence that you have the ability to do research, which is the #1 most important part of your application.
		Right, yes, thanks for this! She did seem to imply that there was something wrong with me for not being able to get a paper out, so it was fairly disheartening.
			She's definitely being overdramatic then. Don't let it discourage you, lots of professors give bad advice. I'd say just go for it and apply! Not sure where you are thinking of, but there are plenty of good MP PhD programs in the US (visa issues notwithstanding).
				Will do, thanks!!
Hello friends
I’m currently a 4th year undergraduate student at California State Fullerton (my graduate date is May 2023, 5 years) and I’m doing a lot of research on grad school for Medical Physics and was wondering if anyone had any experiences or thoughts on these universities. Currently I’m looking at, Mcgill (Quebec), San Diego State, Columbia, Upenn, Umass Lowell, Oregon State, and SUNY Buffalo. I’m currently at a 3.2 cumulative gpa and I am only a handful of major courses in (hopefully looking to keep my B/A average) as a Physics major with a minor in Cinema and Television arts. Any comments or experiences on these universities would be appreciated. And I’m open to chats or PM’s if you’d like to talk. Thank you very much
	If getting a clinical job is your goal, I'd check the residency placement stats of each school you're interested to help gauge how successful their alumni are (there is a lot of variability between schools here).
[deleted]
	It would definitely be helpful to do research and volunteer more in clinical projects, although what form this takes may vary a lot between different programs. However, there is definitely no need to "pigeonhole" yourself into a specific technology (it might even be harmful). Even people who do their PhD dissertations on a certain method are in no way guaranteed to keep working on that thing exclusively (if at all) when they're in a clinical job after residency. Many other posts on this forum indicate that the necessary knowledge is more or less covered in the CAMPEP curriculum, and once you get to the interview stage of residency applications they are more screening for personality, work ethic, attitude, etc.
Hello! I am looking for some basic career advice. I graduated with a Master's in Medical Physics/Radiological Sciences in 2016. For various life reasons, I ended up taking a job in engineering, and I have been doing that for the past five years. I very much enjoy what I do, but lately I've had the itch to go back to my medical physics educational upbringing.

At the time of my graduation, I had registered for but did not sit for the ABR Part 1 Exam. As a result, I am currently ineligible to take the exam without another year of training. (Had I not initially registered for the exam, it is my understanding that I could register for it and take it at any time, which seems a bit unusual. However, I realize I didn't make the ABR rules, I just have to follow them. ;)

If I decided to pursue this route, is my best recourse to start to look into medical physics residencies? Or to possibly pursue an entry-level position/volunteer position (if at all possible) and accrue experience that way (or would that even suffice for additional training needed to take the exam)?

I apologize for my ignorance in the matter; I am looking to get a heading check to figure out the best course of action here.

Any and all feedback would be greatly appreciated. Thank you!
What clinical experience do MS graduate students need to be qualified as a junior physicists?
	None.
I would like to have a Medical Physics ABR exam facsimile to study, is it posible or are not available to anyone?
	That's 1000% against the rules. Examinees are explicitly told not to share test questions.
		Yeah I thought, I don't want to break rules. But I thought that there were facsimiles for practicing.  
Thank you for your reply, I apreciate it.
