Post Title: [Training Tuesday] - Weekly thread for questions about grad school, residency, and general career topics 10/19/2021
Post Content: This is the place to ask questions about graduate school, training programs, or general basic career topics. If you are just learning about the field and want to know if it is something you should explore, this thread is probably the correct place for those first few questions on your mind.

Examples: 

* "I majored in Surf Science and Technology in undergrad, is Medical Physics right for me?"
* "I can't decide between Biomedical Engineering and Medical Physics..."
* "Do Medical Physicists get free CT scans for life?"
* "Masters vs. PhD"
* "How do I prepare for Residency interviews?"
Comments: 
Hi All,

I am currently 36 and thinking about making a career change to Medical physics. Is this a job where you can easily work until 70 if you wanted to? Since I will be an older applicant I need to take career longevity into account. Any advice or tips I would greatly appreciate. Thank you.
Anyone heard whether programs will be doing residency interviews virtually or in person this year? I know many are probably still deciding but wondering if there is discussion going on about the pros/cons.
	I attended 17 sessions of AAPM’s virtual residency fair and every program said they definitely or most likely would be doing interviews virtually because of home university or hospital policy, though some extended general invites to people who wanted to informally visit.
		Thank you for the insight! I attended some myself and most indicated the same.
	Update post meeting of residency program directors:  yes, the majority of places will do virtual interviews this year.
	I would imagine it will be mostly virtual. Most of the medical residencies are doing all virtual interviews. Pros are definitely the cost. Paying to travel to a bunch of interviews when I was beyond broke as a grad student was extremely stressful. Not to mention the time commitment during an important educational period in my programs.
		Residency program directors in SDAMPP will be having a discussion on it soon.  But there are definitely some very good reasons to stay with virtual and keeping the cost down for applicants is one of the big ones.
SDAMPP had a meeting this PM on the topic & polled the program directors at the meeting. 12 programs are doing virtual interviews, 3 were undecided, 1 is doing on site & another is doing both virtual & onsite. Most of the residency programs at academic institutions will probably do virtual as their ACGME offices will be recommending/requiring virtual interviews.
