Post Title: [Training Tuesday] - Weekly thread for questions about grad school, residency, and general career topics 07/13/2021
Post Content: This is the place to ask questions about graduate school, training programs, or general basic career topics. If you are just learning about the field and want to know if it is something you should explore, this thread is probably the correct place for those first few questions on your mind.

Examples: 

* "I majored in Surf Science and Technology in undergrad, is Medical Physics right for me?"
* "I can't decide between Biomedical Engineering and Medical Physics..."
* "Do Medical Physicists get free CT scans for life?"
* "Masters vs. PhD"
* "How do I prepare for Residency interviews?"
Comments: 
Is anybody here knows on what schools waived GRE exam? I see that I am not able to take this exam due to the COVID situation and financial constraints. I do hope schools considering waiving GRE now.
	I've heard University of Wisconsin and UChicago, but there probably are others too.
	I would email the programs you're interested in and ask.
	I would assume that schools would have that listed on their websites.
Simple question, help is very appreciated.

I am considering applying to medical physics for a master’s degree, however from my research it seems like they are all two years in length. And the problem is i can barely afford one year, so does anyone know a college in Canada that offers a one year program?
	Some programs have funded masters it offer scholarships though. It might be worth looking into University of Toledo, Purdue, and University of Wisconsin (I don't think funding is guaranteed, but it might be worth inquiring). It would be a lot to learn everything in a year.
	I think the only 1 year CAMPEP masters program is the one in Galway, Ireland.
How much do radiation therapy medical physicists work directly with patients? In other words, how often do you get to handle things like developing and overseeing treatment plans and other responsibilities that would have a direct impact on a patient’s outcome?

I’m just learning about this field for the first time (undergrad in electrical engineering), and it sounds like very interesting and meaningful work, but some people on forums describe their job as 95% machine testing and quality assurance – which just isn’t something I could see myself doing for a career. Thanks in advance.
	There are definitely different roles within medical physics which have more and less patient contact. Radiopharmaceuticals, TBI, brachytherapy, kV and electron treatments all have a substantial amount of patient contact. At UCSD they're trying to involve physicists in the patient consult process, maybe other places are too.

These tend to be the less desirable activities too just because of how far a lot of us are on the spectrum, but tend to happen more at large centers so it's not automatic.
		That is some fantastic insight. Thank you so much!
	Honestly, contingent on the workload at your center (aka if you have the precious resource of time) I think it's up to you. If you are involved with brachy, hang around at sim/the machines, etc. and want patient interactions I think you can find ways to make it happen. Granted, this is very dependent on a given department's culture and how you're defining what it means to be a physicist. Hope that helps!
		That does help, or at least provides some hope lol. I’ve (so far) had a hard time finding much of my engineering coursework fulfilling, and pivoting to medicine after getting my B.S. feels like a worthwhile thing to do. I’m just trying to find an avenue that doesn’t involve totally changing gears, redoing a bunch of my undergrad, and outright going to medical school – while still getting to feel like I’m doing something significant.

Thank you again!
			I have some patient contact in my practice and I enjoy it, but if your objective is patient contact, and you are now considering, medicine is the way to go. A modern hospital is a complex machine with many different professionals, but at the end the patient is of the doctors.
 
If a hospital is a soccer team, a doctor is like the striker and your job will be more as midfield-defence.
				Aside from direct patient contact, how much of your job involves participating in treatment? I guess that my main reservation has more to do with the idea of being pigeonholed into doing equipment maintenance, rather than providing care. To me, the former sounds closer to being a technician (which is perfectly respectable work), but it’s just not something that gets me excited. 

The idea of performing quality assurance and servicing machines all day is partially what’s turning me away from engineering in the first place.
Hi all, I'm currently an undergrad majoring in Biomedical Physics. I'm getting my master's degree in Medical Physics, and am applying to programs now. As such, I've been thinking about what's next. I've seen a couple of people say that residencies are extremely hard to get for Medical Physics. Since I am pursuing a master's degree and not a PhD (I am pursuing a master's degree as I am a senior in college and already suffering from some burnout... I am not sure I can do enough work for a PhD at this time)- how much will my ability to find a residency be hurt? Will I be able to find a residency? Or what should I do after graduation?
	I see this discussed here a lot and I, personally, don't understand the concern or at least why it comes up so often. I think there was even a survey post match and plenty of people with masters were matched.

Background: I have a masters and I am in contact with many of my previous classmates (all masters degrees) and those from several years after I graduated. So only 20 - 30 people total I'd estimate but enough for me to make this post. 

None of us had issues getting interviews or getting matched to a residency right out of school. I personally do not know anyone who did not match. I know that plenty of people do not match every year and I do feel awful for their situation and wish the number of graduate programs would decrease to reduce this issue. But that's another topic all together... 

My point is: if you work hard and are competitive, you should get interviews for residencies. Then it is up to you to really sell yourself and make a great impression for why you would be an asset to their department for two years. 

If you're feeling burn out now, know that you are going to have to work harder than you have before for the next two years to be competitive. Then residency also involves a lot of learning while working 40+ hour weeks. There is a long path of examinations ahead. Just a friendly warning from someone who was feeling burn out by the end of undergrad and definitely had some rough patches from grad school through board certification.
		Thanks for the initial advice! I am nervous by nature, and it's very sad for me to see people without residencies.

For burnout, what can I do to combat it? I will be 20 when I enter grad school, and I am extremely afraid of falling behind because of my age. However, my parents will not let me stop school, and I agree that it's in my best interest to apply now as the GRE is waived for a couple of my top choice schools right now.
			I think its good to be a bit nervous. It can motivate some people to work harder and do research ahead of time. Why would you think you would be falling behind because of your age? You are ahead of almost anyone else I've seen enter a medical physics grad program. 

If you are 20 and entering grad school, I am assuming that you are been going at 150% for a long time. I can only speak from my personal experience but I felt that from the start of grad school to the end of part 3 (\~5 years if all goes well) was pretty non-stop. Its probably a good idea to identify what study/work methods work well for you to help things feel a bit more enjoyable. Medical physics carried a lot more meaning for me than my undergraduate physics classes and research but its still a lot of work. Is the waived GRE just the general? I wouldn't be too concerned about that either way since if you completed the prereqs for medical physics you can probably do extremely well on the general with just a couple weeks of focused studying. If you're referring to the physics GRE on the other hand... well thats just always going to be tough and I only really remember PhD programs looking for that. 

Something I also left out of my last comment was if you want to do clinical work, a masters is great. You will pretty much 100% need a PhD if you desire to do research or work at most universities. I would pick the degree based on what you'd like to work on in the future.
			I was in a similar situation. Graduated college at 19 and felt obligated to continue school, but, as u/Beam_Runner speculates, was pretty burnt out!

Instead of continuing on to graduate school, I took a position as an MPA. I love it! It's crazy how much more I learn *on the job* than I did in school. MPA is not a well-defined profession, so duties vary a lot from clinic to clinic, and, at least in my experience, you can "work your way up" to basically any task legal for a non-QMP. You may need some supervision from a physicist, but some tasks are best tag-teamed, anyway.

Most MPAs are medphys graduate students with plans to become certified. But it's possible to go straight from MPA to working in industry, where certification isn't always required. Medphys professionals in industry write software, provide technical support, sell products, etc. Unlike in the clinic, in industry your skills matter at least as much as your credentials.

I guess what I'm saying is, "Don't make yourself miserable by continuing in school if you're not passionate about it. Try out an entry-level job in a field that interests you, and if you're good, you can work your way up."
Does anyone have any experience with USF? They’re on my list because they’re in my area but beyond their own website I can’t find any information on the program.
