Post Title: [Training Tuesday] - Weekly thread for questions about grad school and general career topics 03/02/2021
Post Content: This is the place to ask questions about graduate school, training programs, or general basic career topics. If you are just learning about the field and want to know if it is something you should explore, this thread is probably the correct place for those first few questions on your mind.  

Examples: 

* "I majored in Viticulture in undergrad, is Medical Physics right for me?"
* "I can't decide between Biomedical Engineering and Medical Physics..."
* "Do Medical Physicists get free CT scans for life?"
* "Masters vs. PhD"
* "How do I prepare for Residency interviews?"
Comments: 
Hi everyone, I've been accepted to all three for a PhD and would love some input from the community. What are some pros/cons of each? Similar to /u/log-o, looking at these three schools. I'd be happy with a PI at any of them so would like some input on the softer details:

UCLA: 

- Medium size good for both have resources and still being a small community

- I am very familiar with Los Angeles and it would be a pretty smooth transition

- Most research is imaging, which is not necessarily what I want to do

- Students seem happier and have more free time

- Laboratory rotations



UChicago:

- Almost all students get first choice for residency

- Very small program might foster a huge sense of
 community 

- Beautiful campus and great city 

- Students seem much busier overall

- Has more research opportunities for the field I'm interested in

- Good connections to national labs if I want to pursue that route



Wisconsin:

- Probably the most well-known and competitive with UChicago

- Large amount of resources and large program

- Also 100% residency placements but not sure about top choices

- I am not really a fan of the smaller city or smaller/more remote state

- Students are very happy as well from what I can tell

- Already locked into a laboratory although it is in my area of interest
	I’m biased towards UChicago, but I think most of your points are pretty accurate.  One thing I will point out about UChicago is that a majority of the university is graduate students, so there are a lot of grad student resources that have been beneficial to many of my friends around the university.  I don’t think you can go wrong with any of the three schools though, congrats on your acceptances!
		Thanks for the insight! Definitely a valid point about the grad population there.
	>I am not really a fan of the smaller city or smaller/more remote state

If you're talking about Madison, don't overlook it as a cool place to live, at least in normal times!
		Not only is it a cool place to live, but its location allows for relatively quick access to large cities such as Chicago (2-2.5 hours), Milwaukee (\~1hr), and the Twin Cities (\~4 hours)
[deleted]
	The biggest factor should be which lab/PI do you want to work with and what research is the most interesting to you. This will be the biggest influence on how much you enjoy your 4+ years of grad school IMO
		>Is there a downside to doing research rotations, as opposed to immediately joining a lab? Which do you prefer?

If you aren't exactly sure what kind of research you'll want to do, doing a few research rotations will help you figure that out. You'll get to "try on" a few different labs/PIs/projects. This could be very helpful to determine what you want your PhD project to be. But if you already know exactly what you want to research, and who your PI will be, these rotations may not be necessary.
			To follow up on this point, I know someone who knew exactly which lab+project they wanted when they started at UChicago.  They were still required to do 2 rotations, which was 10 weeks away from the lab they wanted, but had a beneficial experience during the rotation anyway.  It’s not ideal if you know exactly what you want to do, but it’s very desirable if there’s even the slightest doubt on which lab you want to join.  No other downside to rotations in my opinion though, but plenty of upside (e.g. networking with other professors and connecting with students in other labs, gaining a broader set of research tools).
	What is the deadline for you to make the decision? I would recommend talking to someone in this field but in schools other than these three to get some more objective perspectives. Also one thing you want to look at is whether the school has an affiliated hospital, even if you want to go to academia afterwards, it would still be super helpful to have hands-on clinical experience.
	At least in the midwest, Madison candidates get pretty much an auto-interview for residency programs, which is not necessarily true of the other two.
		From the grad students and faculty at Chicago they told us they have 100% residency placement and almost everyone has their top choice. I think Wisconsin also has 100%, but not sure where in the match they landed
I kind of think I screwed up. 

I'll be finishing my Master's in May, but I never applied to residencies, partially because I thought I would be able to do a PhD in some (to me interesting) clinical research at the hospital, though I admit it was also just easier than the prospect of going for interviews during the pandemic. However now it's pretty clear that my school won't accept that and I'm not really interested in doing a PhD in non-medical physics. 

So, I could just graduate and apply to match next year, but I'm afraid that this looks really bad on my application. I could also apply to some other PhD programs, which I guess is probably the most realistic option, but it's not that common to come in with a Master's.
	You can apply next year. There are medical physics assistant or industry physics positions available that you could look into if you want something related to the field. You can see if any of the major vendors have openings which don't typically require residency or board certification. I imagine that would look pretty good to residencies next year when you apply. 

You can also find residencies that don't participate in the match or that accept residents on a different schedule than normal. While rare, there are residencies out there that are not 2 years (usually 2.5-3 years). I would just compare the list of CAMPEP residencies to the list that participates in the match and contact any of the approved ones not matching.
	I don't think you screwed up. It doesn't hurt your chances of matching if you don't immediately go into the match.  


As for going into a PhD with a masters from a different institution -- I did. It shouldn't be an issue. You should be able to have some classes transfer too (each university has its own policy on this, so you would have to do your research), or they would just expect you to re-take their version of the class. Unfortunately, the application deadlines for fall admission have most likely passed for most places. So, you might have to apply for spring admission instead.
	I'd check out Siemens, GE, Elekta, Sun Nuclear etc to see if there's any relevant work available.
Hi. I'm currently applying to grad school and was wondering what my options are if I were to not get into any programs. I know that I would have to wait till the next application cycle, but what are jobs I could do in the interim period that would also help improve my application?
	Medical Physics Assistant is a good interim job. You'll tend to do more of the laborious tasks, but you get clinical experience and pad you resume/application very nicely.

I would also recommend finding a local clinic and seeing if you can shadow their Physicist. It might be a little more difficult with the current restriction but not impossible.
Hi everyone - I’m currently an MPA with my BS in Physics. I’m trying to decide if a Masters or PhD is right for me, & I can’t seem to make any headway on an application route (looking to matriculate in 2022/2023).

I really enjoy the day to day clinic life, but I’ve never really done any significant research so I can’t say with certainty whether or not I like/dislike research. 

Appreciative of any & all advice!
	I'm applying to PhD programs this cycle, so I haven't actually enrolled yet and can't speak to that, but I also had very little research experience after graduating with my BS in physics. I suggest reaching out to any labs that seem vaguely interesting and asking if you can just sit in on their research meetings (maybe leverage connections from undergrad or your MPA position). This will give you a better idea of whether you like/dislike research, and maybe you could even try to work with some of the research folks you meet to gain experience.
Living in the United States, is it a good choice to apply to the CAMPEP masters located in Ireland?

I have studied in Europe for a semester before and I’d love to do it again, but not at the cost of me not being able to get a residency afterwards. I understand that they are CAMPEP accredited but I still am skeptical about it being the only program not located in North America. Can anyone who has been through this program share any thoughts?
	Other posters in the sub have said that their graduates are good but they have to learn the US regulations by themselves when applying to residencies/jobs in the US since they teach the Irish ones in that program. Also technically there is another CAMPEP program in Seoul, South Korea.
Hello all,

I have been accepted to my top two MS programs: Vanderbilt and U Kentucky. I love both programs, as they are very clinically focused and have smaller, tight knit classes. I want to do the therapy track and do a residency after my MS. Does anybody have any advice on how to choose, or pros and cons of either program. Cost is my largest concern, but is not a deal breaker for me. Thank you.
	I know Kentucky puts their students in the clinic right from the beginning eventually working alongside residents and physicists. The level of clinical experience a student gets sounds close to some actual residencies out there and they have a reputation for putting out strong clinical physicists. 

I would strongly consider the faculty you interviewed with and what program you got a better feeling from. If cost is a major concern, see if either program offers TA positions. I think many of the programs that have students participating in the clinic heavily ask you not to do extra jobs like TA since you are expected to be in the clinic most of the time you are not in class.
		Thank you for your reply. I really liked the faculty and culture at Vanderbilt. So I am leaning towards them.
	University of Kentucky reserves some residency spots exclusively for their grads so I'd go with them.
		That does sound like a great benefit. Thank you for your reply.
I’m still a freshman so I have time, but I’ve been wanting to be a medical physicist. Although leaning more towards working in a lab and researching as opposed to being in a hospital because I don’t want to go to medical school. My plan is to graduate uc with a B.S. in physics, and then get a masters degree in physics again. While I’m doing my masters, I plan on applying to internships (because I can’t seem to find any good medical physicist internships where I live). Afterwards, I hope to get my residential in (I’m not sure how that would look like considering I’m not planning on working in a hospital, but I heard it was something that’s required after getting a master’s ..?). Does this seem like a solid plan? I’m still very unsure of how to actually become a medical physicist and anything would help!
	This is in the sidebar, it's a really good overview of the training required. Also it's residency, not residential (thought you were immigrating or something at first)

[link](https://www.sdampp.org/documents/SDAMPPStudentGuideToAMedicalPhysicsCareer.pdf)

Edit: also if you don't want to work in a hospital, then clinical medical physics may not be the right career for you. If you like research you should look into doing a PhD, and a residency wouldn't be required. Although the job market in academia is EXTREMELY tough so be warned. Look into r/askacademia.
		Thank you! My bad, I get residential and residency mixed up, will work on that😅but thank you, I’ll definitely look into it
What's one thing you wish you realized before choosing which master's program to attend? Currently struggling with the decision myself
	Cost was a big factor for me
		Cost was my number one factor too. After that you need to think about what you are trying to gain from your graduate experience is it heavy clinical experience and high residency rates or is it heavy research. Those things are important in helping you choose which school to attend. Also fit is a big thing, I don't know how your experience was so far when I went through the application process I went to a few places and interviewed and you get a good feel of the program and if you would enjoy being a part of it.
		I applied to Columbia MS and am very concerned about the cost. Still waiting to hear back. Any opinions on if it’s worth the seemingly $120k?
			It's not
		I did not consider cost and really feel like I should have. I spent way more than I realized at the time. However, I focused on my end goal and finding a program that would best get me there. Fortunately, my programs reputation and quality definitely helped me find some jobs and make connections I otherwise wouldn't have. That being said, I often think that I could have had a similar outcome spending less than half of what I did.
	I'd recommend getting to know the faculty since they'll be the ones teaching you. Make sure they have your best interest in mind.
	I second  (or third in this case) the cost comments. More money does not necessarily equal a better education or more experience.
	Not something I wish I had realized, but something I'm glad I knew before graduate school: clinical experience is a big plus if you want to go into residency and get a clinical job, and knowing to look for somewhere that would prepare me for the ABR part 1 really well
	Piggybacking off of other commenters, cost is extremely important, and that includes the COL of the city that you're in. I did a previous masters in San Francisco and boy that was painful on the bank account.
Any advice on choosing schools and personal experiences would be greatly appreciated!

I've been accepted to Duke, UPenn, and McGill Masters programs. What are some pros and cons of each program?

I plan to get into residency after MS so I am looking for a school that has lots of clinical work opportunities. In terms of cost, McGill would be the most affordable (1/10 tuition of the other schools + scholarship) but I'm hearing people say that the US job prospects for medical physicists are much better compared to Canada. Please help me out!
	Since residency placement is your top priority the school that has the best residency placement rate should be at the top of your list. I know that UPenn has like a 87% placement rate which is really good. They also pay you to work in there clinic to give you the necessary experience that can be crucial come time for the match, and the pay was something like ~$20 an hour if I remember correctly from my interview there. But still a pricey school.
As for Duke, they do not boast the best residency placement for their MS students, something like 60% if I remember correctly and it is extremely expensive to go there even with their scholarship’s they offer their students. But I will say I really enjoyed my interview experience there and the campus and hospital are top notch and the faculty were very nice.
I am not familiar with McGill though.
I hope this helps with your decision making process a little bit.
		Thanks for your reply! These are some helpful informatoin :)
	>I'm hearing people say that the US job prospects for medical physicists are much better compared to Canada

Just because you go to school in Canada doesn't mean you can't do a residency or get a job in the US. ABR and CCPM are regarded as interchangeable in both countries so I wouldn't consider the job market in Canada to be a deciding factor for schooling.
		Yes, I'm aware of the interchangeable option but I was wondering if there are any advantages for ABR students to land a residency in US and CCPM students for Canada? Do you know people who have gone to the states for residency after their masters in Canada?
			I'm from a Canadian institution that has a CAMPEP PhD program and I know of at least 6 people who have gone to the US for residencies from my program (and there were probably more before my time). I think most if not all did not complete ABR part 1 before residency. Not sure about MSc but I would think it would be the same (until recently my program did not have a CAMPEP MSc option so I don't personally know people who did this). BTW CCPM is all done after residency so there is no equivalent to ABR part 1 for CCPM and if you do want to write ABR part 1 you can do so regardless of which country you are doing your training in.
				I see! Thanks so much for the info :) I wasn’t too familiar with the ABR and CCPM processes. This helps a lot
	Hey, cool to see a potential McGill classmate! I just recently accepted my offer for their MSc :)

Have you made a decision yet?
I got accepted to the Columbia MS program for medical physics, but it is SO EXPENSIVE and they don’t give scholarships, GAships, TAships either. I was thinking of taking out a student loan, but I was wondering.. is it worth it?
Would completing a CAMPEP accredited MSc and then a non-accredited PhD (such as at UofT) hurt my chances for getting into a residency?
	No it wouldn't hurt your chances. A lot of residency places only take PhD holders, or at least strongly prefer them, so having a PhD would open up more opportunities; although you should not neglect the opportunity costs of doing so (years of missed potential salary, high CoL of GTA, etc). Also from what I've heard having a PhD is the only practical way of getting into a Canadian medical physics job.
		I have heard that as well, and a job in Canada is what I'm aiming for. The reason I asked is because on UofT's site for their residency program, they state "The preferred qualification for entry to the residency program is a Ph.D. in medical physics from a CAMPEP accredited graduate program."

So I was wondering if what they mean by that is a) "the preferred candidate has a CAMPEP PhD" or b) "the preferred candidate has completed any CAMPEP graduate program + a PhD". Also was curious if a) is common for Canadian residency programs in general.
			I would also consider certificate programs. Not sure how we'll they're received in Canada but a 1 year certificate after the PhD makes more sense to me in a lot of ways than the master's up front.
Hello guys,

I was offered a position as a medical physicist assistant at a hospital. I have a biology and microbiology bachelor degree. I know not really my same type of work. My questions is what is the career growth for this position if I do take it? What would be my next possible promotion? What would be the salary look like after a few years? What other industry could my experience here be useful in? Would I need more education? Any information helps. 

Thank you all.
