Post Title: [Training Tuesday] - Weekly thread for questions about grad school, residency, and general career topics 11/30/2021
Post Content: This is the place to ask questions about graduate school, training programs, or general basic career topics. If you are just learning about the field and want to know if it is something you should explore, this thread is probably the correct place for those first few questions on your mind.

Examples: 

* "I majored in Surf Science and Technology in undergrad, is Medical Physics right for me?"
* "I can't decide between Biomedical Engineering and Medical Physics..."
* "Do Medical Physicists get free CT scans for life?"
* "Masters vs. PhD"
* "How do I prepare for Residency interviews?"
Comments: 
[deleted]
	I would say, first you need positive references. 
Good physics resident recommendation is better than bad professor recommendation or even excellent recommendation from former employer (who has no idea what is medical physics and recommend you in general).
Is it ok to apply to residencies that are not campep accredited?
	Only if you are ok not to have path to ABR certification.
	If your end goal is to work as a clinical physicist then it is risky. Programs need residents to become accredited so newer programs will need to recruit people to be first through the program. I would ask specific questions about where they are at in the accreditation process, when their site review dates are scheduled, or when they anticipate having those scheduled for. Make sure they have a full curriculum planned for their residents. Once you get this information, verify their progress toward accreditation with CAMPEP. You can get all the requirements and documents from CAMPEP of what they require programs to provide to complete this process to gauge where they currently are. 

I would only apply to a program that has done most of this work upfront and has dates scheduled or are applying for site review in the near future (no more than a year out would be safe to give time to address deficiencies.) Do not apply to a program that is just looking for cheap resident labor. CAMPEP requires they have a set program with rotations and education on top of clinic work. They should allow you time to read reports, do journal presentations, and learn required information during each rotation along with regular examinations. Anyone that just wants you doing QA for 12 hours a day probably won't pass an accreditation review. 

Again, this is risky but not terrible if they have done a lot of work up front. As long as they complete accreditation while you are a resident, you will be board eligible.
I have a bachelor's in physics and a masters in data science. I've worked as a pharmaceutical chemist/engineer and I'm currently in aerospace and I'm realizing I want to do something that can help people. Where do I start or what programs should I start looking into if I'm interested in working in oncology or hospital setting?
	[deleted]
		Thank you for the response. I work next to a hospital in boulder and found a person on LinkedIn that I'll reach out to and see if I can do some shadowing.
			[deleted]
				Yeah I don't use it much either I just didn't want to sound like I wasn't willing to try. He's got an (apparently) common name so a lot pops up so if I don't find something by the end of the weekend I'll use LinkedIn. Thanks for the heads up
If you've ever reviewed residency applications, what are some of the things that stick out most to you? Is there anything you look for in particular? Either positive or negative? Do you have any advice on what should be included in the personal statement?
	There are lots of negatives. The good applications all start to bleed together. Have good grades, has some experience using the equipment we use, isn't too short, isn't too long, good letters of recommendation, a legible personal statement. 

A personal statement can be anything. Most people write about something they overcame and that's why they chose medical physics, or someone they loved has/had cancer and that's when they wanted to work in Radiation Oncology. Those are all good and there is nothing wrong with them. Like I said they just all bleed together. But that's not a bad thing. Your application should get you your interview, and that's where you can show your personality/work ethic/etc.
I am currently doing an undergrad in Astronomy. Would like to major in Physics/Medical Physics in my masters. Is this directly possible? Do I need to do any bridge courses? What is the path like from an Astronomy major to Medical Physicist? 

&#x200B;

Also, any recommendations on masters courses in the EU?
	Are you taking other physics courses like E&M, QM, Circuits, Modern Physics? If so, you won't need any bridge courses except maybe some Anatomy/Physiology. Just check out the prerequisites for the Master's programs you're interested in applying to. If their websites don't show it email their admins.
I am currently a radiologic technologist with a B.S. and interested in a masters program for diagnostic medical physicist. I am having a hard time finding a program specifically for diagnostic, any advice? Arizona would be great!
	There are not specific programs for diagnostic or therapy, you will learn about both in any CAMPEP program. That being said, some are better than others about their imaging curriculum. I would recommend looking at the course catalog and seeing if there are a decent number of imaging courses, especially advanced electives. Match rate is important too.
		Thanks! I just assumed there were different pathways for diagnostic vs therapeutic. No wonder I was having trouble.
			The paths diverge at the residency stage; you will have to pick what track you want to do, then apply (and hopefully match) to a residency in that track. Part 2 and 3 of the ABR exam are also track specific. So keep that in mind as you progress through your career.
My gre scores are subpar (156Q 151V and 5W). For masters programs that don’t require them, should I send them in?? I am obviously sending them to masters programs that do require them, but not sure about those that dont
