Post Title: [Training Tuesday] - Weekly thread for questions about grad school, residency, and general career topics 08/03/2021
Post Content: This is the place to ask questions about graduate school, training programs, or general basic career topics. If you are just learning about the field and want to know if it is something you should explore, this thread is probably the correct place for those first few questions on your mind.

Examples: 

* "I majored in Surf Science and Technology in undergrad, is Medical Physics right for me?"
* "I can't decide between Biomedical Engineering and Medical Physics..."
* "Do Medical Physicists get free CT scans for life?"
* "Masters vs. PhD"
* "How do I prepare for Residency interviews?"
Comments: 
Hello! Would an undergrad degree in mathematics with a minor in physics typically be sufficient for graduate school in medical physics? Thanks!
	That would make you CAMPEP compliant. Good luck!
I've been looking for medical physics books but I think I need a deeper physics background. Like to understand physical equations applied on medical physics.

What books, youtube channels or websites would you recomend to learn physics specially aplied to medical physics?
	This probably sounds haphazard, but it is literally what I do. Of course, I have no and don't plan on any formal med phys education, so YMMV. Whenever I come across an unfamiliar topic in something I'm reading, I Google it. If I find another unfamiliar topic in that search, I Google *it*. I go down this rabbit hole until I read something informative that I completely understand, then work backward.
	Do you have a physics background already? Or are you self studying this stuff for the first time?
		I have to reenforce my physics background. I'm Self-studying medical physics for the first time, but I'm in a university studying medical technology.  
I can get a certificated-study on medical physics here on my university and I want to prepare me to reach my goal :(
			Don't feel like you need super in hardcore stuff in that case, Griffiths E&M may be helpful.
				Ok, thank you 💕
				Haha, Griffiths e and m is pretty hard core lol
					I mean I know it's challenging, but it's routinely taught to junior physics undergrads; my point being if you can handle the level of rigor of that book, you should be in pretty good shape for taking on the classes in a med phys program, at least from the physics side of things. Depending on your background, the biomed part may be more or less hard than that.
Hi everyone,

I am a Medical Physicist trainee on the NHS STP in the UK, my fiance is from Singapore and after our wedding we are considering emigrating, once my training has finished. This woud mean attempting to find a Medical Physics/Clinical Scientist role in Singapore. I was wondering if my STP training would be sufficient to/equivalent to the requirements in Singapore to be an accredited Medical Physicist, or is there further requirements? (I will also have two MSc's in Medical Physics by the time I finish my training) 

&#x200B;

Thanks very much in advance, any help would be greatly appreciated.
	There are no requirements here, as long as you have the MSc.
		Thank you!
[deleted]
	I am an assistant. I did a masters in a related field and was hired a little under a year after graduating. I was doing research in a lab in the meantime. My uGPA wasn't great but my grad school kind of made up for it. I think my masters gave me knowledge and experience that aligned with what my institution was looking for at the time, so I think I was pretty lucky in that regard, so your milage may vary. I think my job experience as an assistant has been invaluable for helping my own knowledge and "feel" for the field, although I have not reached the residency part so it remains to be seen how helpful it is to admissions committees.
		[deleted]
			Related field, but not super related like dosimetry.
