Post Title: [Training Tuesday] - Weekly thread for questions about grad school, residency, and general career topics 11/23/2021
Post Content: This is the place to ask questions about graduate school, training programs, or general basic career topics. If you are just learning about the field and want to know if it is something you should explore, this thread is probably the correct place for those first few questions on your mind.

Examples: 

* "I majored in Surf Science and Technology in undergrad, is Medical Physics right for me?"
* "I can't decide between Biomedical Engineering and Medical Physics..."
* "Do Medical Physicists get free CT scans for life?"
* "Masters vs. PhD"
* "How do I prepare for Residency interviews?"
Comments: 
[deleted]
I’m about to graduate with my undergrad in Biology and a minor in CS. I have taken physics 1 and 2 and calc but not all of the specific classes some schools “require” for admission. I am going to shadow a medical physicist this winter. If I like it, do I have any chance to get into grad school without taking those upper level physics courses that some schools require?
	[deleted]
		You can honestly succeed in a grad program and arguably do this job with a high school knowledge of chemistry and physics. 

I know plenty of people who satisfied the upper level physics requirements while in a CAMPEP graduate program.
			[deleted]
				To be clear I’m not saying it’s likely, but I’m also saying I don’t think it’s even close to impossible. The academic world is a weird place and we’re really only talking about 2-3 semesters of hard requirements when it’s all said and done, with lots of room to pick up or have already picked up justifiable-enough credits for requirements like anatomy or an upper division *physical* chemistry class or the thermo you took as a biochem major. 

“A lot” in this instance meant like three or four and granted they were all usually a bit further along in undergrad physics than this user, normally having completed modern physics and no 300 levels. Granted, four people in a field this small is kind of a lot since I don’t know close to everyone. They’d all done engineering or other things as undergrads The people I knew were all PhD students working on MRI sequences or whatever who then got enticed by CAMPEP and found a way to make it happen. Some hated research and thought the clinic sounded rewarded, some wanted a backup plan in case that sacred tenure track job never materialized, some I’m sure had other rea$ons after discussing with the MP students they’d inevitably mingle with while researching PET reconstruction algorithms. “The rules” in grad school are somehow at the same time stubbornly immutable and totally flexible, so if you’re a known quantity to the CAMPEP faculty through course overlap or whatever it might not be too difficult to get yourself a CAMPEP certificate while only being semi-affiliated with the department. The schools they were at all had their didactic program aligned with imaging over therapy from what I’ve heard/can speak directly to and I assume that’s far more likely because imaging research casts a much broader net than therapy.
		Do you know any other careers or further schooling I can do with just a biology major that incorporates CS somehow?  I have grown to really like working with computers and have some basic coding knowledge but I couldn’t just throw out all of the chemistry and upper level bio courses so I stuck out my bio degree.
What’s a Gre score required for a DMP programs?
	I can only give input for masters programs. But the GRE wasn't really even considered outside the fact that it was a requirement to take it.

If no one from DMP programs answer you, try reaching out to their grad school coordinators to help find the answer. There aren't many DMP programs and many would argue they may not even be worth it over a Masters & Residency.
		To add on to this, more and more PhD programs are dropping the GRE requirement entirely (and rightly so).
I was wondering, roughly, how many applicants on average does an Imaging residency program like UW, Duke... receives on a cycle?
	All programs are supposed to publish their acceptance stats.

Duke, for example: https://cipg.duhs.duke.edu/content/residency-statistics
Anyone who got accepted in UW-Madison without emailing PI? Like, they just submit their application and they got offer.  Or is it necessary to email potential PI?

Thank you
