Post Title: [Training Tuesday] - Weekly thread for questions about grad school, residency, and general career topics 05/17/2022
Post Content: This is the place to ask questions about graduate school, training programs, or general basic career topics. If you are just learning about the field and want to know if it is something you should explore, this thread is probably the correct place for those first few questions on your mind.

Examples: 

* "I majored in Surf Science and Technology in undergrad, is Medical Physics right for me?"
* "I can't decide between Biomedical Engineering and Medical Physics..."
* "Do Medical Physicists get free CT scans for life?"
* "Masters vs. PhD"
* "How do I prepare for Residency interviews?"
Comments: 
I'm a postdoc in academia with a background in physics, but currently more focused on computational biology & bioinformatics. I'm thinking about switching to industry and am looking into companies that do cool stuff on the interface between physics and biology. Could someone working in industry give some examples of roles or companies someone with a PhD should be looking at?

I'm basically only aware of Philips and Siemens in Europe that work on healthcare technology. If you know other cool companies I should take a look at, let me know!
	United Imaging is a newer group that works in healthcare technology, may be worth checking out.
Are there any programs that offer remote PhD's? I'm a therapy MS who recently passed ABR3. I'd like to continue working while pursuing PhD part-time. I love my current location, and would hate to leave and give up the paycheck.

Very interested in machine learning and automation, and have a good amount of experience with this.

I did grad school and residency and at a well-known and respected university. Thinking of reaching out to some old colleagues and advisors. But would like to know if anyone has had any experience with this? I'm wondering if it's become more common with COVID over the past couple years?
	Not an answer, but sth I am curious about. Would you recommend going thru residency first before going for a phd if you are not 100% sure you wanna do research instead of going through residency and jumping onto the job market earlier through just a MSc. I am asking this as someone about to start MSc and would love to go to residency right after (for financial reasons). However, I think I would wanna do a phd eventually. Should i do the phd it right after my MSc before I do the residency and sacrifice the benefit of making money early on?
		I'm literally in your situation, but a few years ahead (want to do research, but also come from a very low income family so the financials make it difficult not to pursue residency first). I did my MS, spent a year doing research (didn't participate in match upon graduation for personal reasons), and just matched into residency.

I'll tell you what my thesis advisor and my current PI both said to me: it'll be difficult to let go of the money to go back to get your PhD. PhD stipends are notoriously difficult to live on. You may save up for a few years to make it easier on yourself, but by then you might be in the rhythm and comfort that a stable salary provides.

Also, not having a PhD doesn't preclude you from research opportunities if you work at an academic center. Even teaching opportunities might be available if you're particularly good at something (my most insightful proton physics classes were taught by MS staff physicists). That said, you definitely won't be managing a lab, and likely won't be a course director since you're not faculty.
		If you’re not 100% sure you want to do research, then I would suggest not getting a PhD. Life’s too short to waste time doing things that don’t align with your personal goals.
