Post Title: [Training Tuesday] - Weekly thread for questions about grad school, residency, and general career topics 10/18/2022
Post Content: This is the place to ask questions about graduate school, training programs, or general basic career topics. If you are just learning about the field and want to know if it is something you should explore, this thread is probably the correct place for those first few questions on your mind.

Examples: 

* "I majored in Surf Science and Technology in undergrad, is Medical Physics right for me?"
* "I can't decide between Biomedical Engineering and Medical Physics..."
* "Do Medical Physicists get free CT scans for life?"
* "Masters vs. PhD"
* "How do I prepare for Residency interviews?"
Comments: 
[deleted]
	You should draw on your current work and what you get out of it. If you've been an MPA for 3 years you should have at least a few experiences about the practice of medical physics that animates you and motivates you to continue your education in it.
[deleted]
	> qualified as a medical physicist

QMP is a specific term for board certified physicists. You would have to do a residency and pass the 3 board exams before you would be qualified.

Doing a certificate program would make you "board eligible."

I can't speak for other residencies (although I image this is a common sentiment), but the one I'm affiliated with likes having people with different perspectives. There was even an MD PhD several years ago.
I’m currently applying to PhD programs and I’m pretty nervous about it, seeing low acceptance rates across the board. I’m in my last year in my CAMPEP accredited MS program, and I’m doing a thesis. I applied to a handful of PhD programs after getting my physics BS, but was rejected from all of them. Do PhD programs prefer MS applicants over BS applicants? Will my MS thesis help? What else can I do to increase my chances of getting in? Thank you all
	I don’t know specifically about your chances to be accepted with a masters. But you do have other options in case you don’t get in this year. You could always go into the Match and look for a residency and do a PhD after residency.
		I’ve thought of doing this as well, but some PhD programs don’t get back to applicants until after match is decided, I hear
			This is also true.
What do l need to be medical physics assistant in the US? Do I need to have MS Degree from CAMPEP or BS physics would be enough for this position?
	It depends by position, but a BS can work.
Is it okay in doing a residency first and then applying for a phd after? And during the residency, will I be knowledgeable in doing the abr tests?
	You can do residency then PhD, but most don't. Residency is all about preparing you for ABR part II and III (more than PhD, which focuses on research more than clinical medphys). Additionally, with a MS and Residency you can enter the workforce making 120-150k year even without the ABR certification (you should be on track of getting it tho), so I believe it wouldn't be very "smart" to leave a stable/high paying job to do a 4yr PhD where, even if you get paid, it's on the \~30K year. PhD is good for increasing chances of getting a residency and to work as professor in academic instituitons, but really won't make you more knowledgeable on ABR tests, and won't increase your salary all that much (as shown in AAPM salary surveys).
Applying to residency soon. Does the “reputation” of a residency name brand matter? I’ve only applied to college and grad school, where I’ve thought about that among other things before. 

If so, how do I figure out what residencies have strong “name brands” in this field. If not, what factors are more important in picking a place.

Importantly, I’m by no means only considering the reputation of a residency institute, but all of the other information about each program seems to be widely available.
	At the end of the day, residency is about finding a good fit for you as much as it is obtaining a position at all. I think anyone coming from a CAMPEP accredited residency will do just fine obtaining a job, so I wouldn’t worry too much about program reputation - each program has its strengths and weaknesses, as you’ll come to find during interviews. Just focus on what you want out of your residency training and what would be a good fit for you!
	[deleted]
		Why?
			Just so you know this person has an axe to grind against ECU. ECU isn't the biggest name out there in medical physics but a quick search of the CAMPEP data shows that multiple ECU alum have applied to residencies and gotten in ([https://www.campep.org/PublicDisclosure.asp](https://www.campep.org/PublicDisclosure.asp)). This includes one current imaging resident that I spoke to personally at AAPM this year.
How optimistic are physicists about the career field moving forward? With vaccines and other methods becoming better and better, is there still a positive outlook of necessity of radiation therapy in 10 years?
	We will absolutely need medical physicists, and don't forget imaging physicists either (medical physics is not just radiation therapy). I don't see vaccines having a significant impact on our field tbh.
		Hi Kerma! Honestly I’m a thousand times more interested in radiation therapy, but can you explain why you don’t think successful vaccines wouldn’t have any significant effect on the field of physicists (let’s not even include diagnostic and just talk about therapy). 

Is it because vaccines and radiation are used in drastically different scenarios to the point where they’re virtually independent of each other or what?
			Radiation therapy is almost always treating some sort of cancer. and there is  going to be a ton of cancer to treat in the future. I am aware of things like the HPV vaccine and its effectiveness in preventing cervical cancer, and there is research being done in other cancer vaccines, but we've a long way to go before putting medical physicists out of business. 

I mention imaging because I work as an imaging MPA, and quality imaging is critical before during and after cancer treatment, so I think people shouldn't sleep on it. At my current job we have nearly doubled the size of our physics team in the last few years due to the patient load at our practice; this trend will likely continue even if at a reduced pace.
				I see. Where on the body is radiation therapy used in? I always assumed wherever there happens to be a single tumor or whatever, but I’m still trying to learn as much as I can lol
					The short answer is yes the radiation is applied such that high dose is applied to the tumor and the medical team (physician, dosimetrist, physicist) tries to make the dose to the rest of the body, specifically organs at risk (OARs) as low as possible. These are great questions for a therapy physicist, especially if you are able to shadow one.
