Post Title: [Training Tuesday] - Weekly thread for questions about grad school, residency, and general career topics 02/15/2022
Post Content: This is the place to ask questions about graduate school, training programs, or general basic career topics. If you are just learning about the field and want to know if it is something you should explore, this thread is probably the correct place for those first few questions on your mind.

Examples: 

* "I majored in Surf Science and Technology in undergrad, is Medical Physics right for me?"
* "I can't decide between Biomedical Engineering and Medical Physics..."
* "Do Medical Physicists get free CT scans for life?"
* "Masters vs. PhD"
* "How do I prepare for Residency interviews?"
Comments: 
Hello! My question is about the medical physics career path in the US for a non-US citizen. 

Can an international student with a CAMPEP-accredited Master's in Medical Physics apply for residency? I mean, are there any Visa issues (current on an F1 visa) I should look out for, or even ineligibility?
	Definitely. It's harder for sure but it's possible. Did you go to a Canadian or Irish grad program?
		Actually got in for a US grad program, and was just wondering about the VISA options. Would residency mean an extended OPT for 2 years?
			Yes, it would be opt. Nevertheless, there is some residency programs that offer H1B like Henry Ford. Look for them.
				Thanks for that, I'll read up more about it  

Would you know if  international students require additional license to practice (during residency) since I'm not from a medical background? Or does that depend on the state you're applying to?
					You don’t need additional licence to practice.
				As far as I know Henry Ford do not offer H1B  for diagnostics, idk about therapy. Pretty much all universities take OPT students, H1B some do, and some non-academic do as well. You should ask each program individually before sending out an application, to not waste money.
					You are right, I was referring to the Therapy residency. Thanks for clarifying.
I figured some of you could help me out here. I'm graduating in May with a bachelors in biology and have recently looked into medical physics. I was planning to go to medical school, but being a doctor sounds like hell at the moment, so I wanted to ask what the best course of action from here would be? I understand I'll have to take additional coursework to qualify; I have taken calc 1 and physics 1 and 2 (algebra based) and currently tutor physics, so I know that I enjoy the subject! Thanks for your help
	Definitely take modern physics as one of the 3.
Hello Everyone! 

I’m currently a sophomore doing my undergrad, (physics major) and want to start working on making myself a strong candidate for some Medical Physics Ph.D programs. Does anyone have any tips on how I can start? Or some tips on how I can get some research experience? 
Thanks so much!
	Hi! I’m a senior and in the middle of deciding where to commit for my PhD, so I could shed some light. If you’re interested in a PhD, I would say that research is a must and shadowing is optional, so try to find opportunities to do that. I highly recommend applying for the AAPM Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship or DREAM (https://gaf.aapm.org/). I did the former and it was super enlightening (also got a nice rec letter out of it). You can also look into SUPERS@PENN. The deadlines have passed, but there’s always next year! In the meantime, maybe send cold emails to faculty in your university’s BME, radiology, or radiation oncology departments (or medical physics if they have it). It might take some time to get a response, but it’ll be a good experience! Feel free to message if you need help. Good luck!
		Thank you for taking the time to help me! 

I looked into the AAMP website saw that those fellowships were open to juniors and seniors, so I didn’t apply. But you’re right there’s always next year. I emailed a professor in my school who had has a Ph.D in Medical Physics, introducing myself and asking if he had a few minutes to talk with me. Fingers crossed I get a response soon.
	I am a senior who just accepted a PhD offer and interviewed at a lot of highly ranked programs (MD Anderson, Wisconsin, UTSW, LSU, Duke) and thought I would add my 2 cents. I think the best thing you could do is apply for the AAPM Undergraduate Fellowship Program, it will give you relevant research experience and a guaranteed strong recommendation letter. In preparation for the AAPM SUFP and also graduate school, I would say to consider joining a physics research lab (I did computational biophysics, but it can really be anything in physics). Shadowing a medical physicist or volunteering at a hospital also looks nice to have the clinical side in addition to the physics side. I'll also add that medical physicists are often very nice and approachable and love to sit down and have a conversation with students who are interested in the field! So don't be afraid to reach out to some medical physicists near you - I sent an email to the chief medical physicist at an academic hospital associated with my university and I was able to speak to 3 different physicists, which was really helpful.
	Do quality research, get good grades, get strong LoR are the main ones for PhD admissions. I would say shadow a physicist (preferably both therapy and imaging) but that is not for your application but more for yourself to make sure you want to do this field.
		Thanks you so much! I really appreciate your help!
Does anyone have any experience with interviewing for UCLA, UPenn, or Kentucky programs? They’re coming up and I was just curious about the formats
	Penn: I would say they're looking for personality and a show of interest in the field.  There was nothing very technical, just like 'how does radiation affect tissue?'  Why MP? Any inclination towards imaging or therapy?
		Thank you! Those are what I was preparing for but I was having anxiety about like white board show the work style questions.
			That doesn’t come until residency interviews and from my experience it was a small minority that went that far. Landauer is one for sure and that was after an hour long technical phone interview. 

The most I got for grad school was to talk about photoelectric effect and Compton scattering. Just the basics. 98% was just personality and wanting to know how I heard of the relatively small/unknown field.
Hello! 

Anyone able to share personal or anecdotal stories about medical physics master’s in Ireland? I have been accepted to UCD’s program but know it is only on it’s 3rd year running. 

Also, any info about going for CAMPEP residencies in US or Ireland post-Irish master’s program would be appreciated. 

Finally, advice from anyone going down the MPE route -as opposed to the CAMPEP residency route- after a master’s would be handy.

Cheers!
	Looks like there are graduates from Galway that have matched to US residencies, some other threads in this sub in the past about it too. Not sure how it compares to the other program.
Hello! I am a current therapy MPA with a BS in Physics looking to apply to masters programs in Fall 2022. 

I am trying to narrow down my list of programs to apply to in the fall. Most of my MP colleagues did their graduate work prior to residencies & such, so they don’t necessarily know what masters programs are like for students. 

I’d love to chat if you have any strong feelings (good or bad) about any of the east coast/Midwest CAMPEP masters programs. DMs are fine if you’d rather discuss privately. Thank you in advance!
	Three questions to help people make suggestions. 

1) Are you interested in therapy physics or imaging physics?
2) Do you want to continue past masters for a PhD?
3) Do you see yourself working in a hospital, academic setting, or in industry?
Anyone got decision for MS from Hofstra, Duke, Purdue, Georgetown? I applied on 13th Jan
	Yes I already got a decision from duke for their MS program.
		When did you apply?
			Applied around Jan 27th and had my interview last week.
				I wasn’t even invited for an interview. Tough Luck I guess.
	Hofstra will probably get back to you around first or second week of March. I am graduating from their program this year if you have any questions
		ughh! more wait.
	Gradcafe may have some decisions posted there.
Hello! I'm currently looking at 2 possible career paths, one being Medical Physics and the other Dosimetry. 

I'm working on my BS with a major in Biochemistry so I was wondering if this would help or hurt me ? And I also wanted to hear more on peoples experiences with grad school, residency and what it takes to work in this field. I live near Portland so I was looking at OHSU program aswell, so does anyone have any experience/ thoughts and opinions on it ?

Thank you all in advance! I hope to hear from you guys.
	I would say it really depends on what your priorities/interests are. Medical physics will take longer (B.S. and any extra physics courses + at least 1-2 years for an M.S. + 2 years of residency) but your eventual salary will be somewhat higher and you'll be able to do a larger variety of things in your day-to-day work life. The dosimetry programs I know of are around 2 years for folks coming in with a B.S. and not as therapists. As a dosimetrist you would be planning all day every day (more or less).  Dosimetrists also tend to be paid hourly whereas physicists are salaried, so physicist hours tend to be a lot more variable. If you can, it could be helpful to shadow a clinic to see what the workday is like for both groups.
		You make a good point about going into shadow a clinic, hopefully I'll be able to do that with Covid. I knew about the pay different but I didn't know one was paid hourly and the other not. I think I'd probably like the salaried one just because I don't want to really depend to much on the hours of work if I only end up doing a half day. I don't always do the best with the same thing repeatedly so having a little variance with my day-to-day   would probably be more beneficial for me. Thank you this was actually supper helpful!
			Happy to help! I'll just clarify that in my experience, being salaried means working more hours, not less (although some places do allow for coming in later on Monday if you work over the weekend or something like that).
				Totally makes sense, I understand it could totally be the opposite as in working more hours and not less. Last question, are you happy and satisfied with what you're doing ? And do you wish to change some things if so what would they be ?
					I would say that most days I am satisfied with what I'm doing, and changes would be too specific to my own preferences/my workplace to be worth mentioning. Best of luck with your decision-making process!
						Thank you! And I hope those changes whatever they may be slowly happen :)
			Therapy physics It’s pretty uncommon to work less than 40. When things get busy, it can get pretty repetitive. Check plans, run QA, do chart rounds, try to not fall behind on monthlies, repeat. At my site, if you are more efficient than your colleagues, you are rewarded with more work and projects with higher expectations on how many initial checks you do.
				I appreciate the honestly, I've always been pretty efficient in everything I do and don't mind the work. I like being busy, I've just done jobs in the past as in production work that you really don't break doing a single task during that 8 hour shift. So at least from what you mentioned it can get be repetitive but with some variety haha 😄
					Even if things pick up and you have to get a ton of new starts ready for the next couple days, those are usually split among breast, prostate, lung, head neck, palliative, etc. You can get some special physics consults in there too for re-irradiation or something interesting. Definitely broken up better than pulling the same lever all day.
						From what I've heard from you and the person prior I think Dosimetry is not going to be it for me. I'd probably be much happier and satisfied with being a physicist so thank you for sharing your experiences.
					[deleted]
						Thank you so much for the thorough breakdow it really explained everything so well. Enough so that I might just have to really consider Dosimetry again. Not for the money to free time ratio but because I'd hate being at the mercy of everyone else and just how well they manage their time.
							[deleted]
								Every view is valid and it is that way for a reason. You don't wake up one day and for no reason have a change in view. If you don't mind me ask ( please don't answer if it makes you uncomfortable) how much is your current salary? Do you think its less then it should be for your work / overtime ? How much more do you think you should be paid ? Yeah jobs that are like that in any field, I feel are rare. I value my mental health so even if Dosimetry is repetitive it's definitely something I'll consider more since I don't want to be overworked, abused and under appreciated. So now I just have to find a clinic to shadow.
									[deleted]
										That's very true and I fully agree there needs to be more laws to regulate that. I would like the flexibility Dosimetry brings just not the repetitiveness of it. Well thanks again, you've brought up great points I'll have to look more into.
	Biochem doesn't hurt you, it can help you actually if go want to like go to Diagnostic NucMed... But keep in mind all the physics courses u will need (see post below in this thread).

Idk much about OHSU, I interviewed there for residency, they were all nice people, but can't speak about their grad program.
		I'm leaning into the Radiation Therapy specialization more then the Nuclear Medicine as I'm a little more interested in that. Would it still be as helpful?  Yeah I actually ended up realizing the same thing of just how many more class I'd have to take for it. Which is why I was looking at what it would take for a BS in physics and I realized a large percentage of classes overlap my current major. Ultimately it make me consider double majoring but I'd really have to sit down with my advisor and see how much longer it would put be behind on my time-line. 

Regarding OHSU having been there for my sister's surgeries over the years I can definitely say the same thing.
I was admitted into Minnesota's PhD program. Is anyone aware of the funding situation this year? There was no mention of it in the acceptance letter.
	Same question here!
I’m a master student in CAMPEP medical physics. I’m graduating next year. Im not sure where will be the opportunity to get residency since everyone is getting a PhD.  Im grateful if you have some source to share. Thank you 🙏
	It is far from true that "everyone" is getting a PhD. They do match at higher rates, yes, but you definitely do not require one to get a residency.
		I know, but even for US, the hospitals are looking for Master and PhD, and PhD preferred. I was thinking apply for Medical physics assistant and do the ABR while working. Do you know is there any website posting the jobs for medical physics assistant, please?
			AAPM careers site and linkedin are where I would start to look.
				Thank you! ❤️
			You can do Part 1 of ABR at the last semester of your MS, but part 2 would require you to finish residency.

As the other point, some places really prefer MS compared to PhD students, and some also don't really care... it's mostly those research heavy places that really want PhD students
Question, 

If you've finished a imaging residency what were you able to do by the end of it? Did the company offer you a job afterwards?
	I haven't done it yet but I know of some people that stayed where they did residency, and also that left to a place closer to home or where they wanted to live. Most good residents get jobs lined up like 6months before finishing up, its a good market
