Post Title: Will medical dosimetry die out?
Post Content: I wanted to do either radiation therapy or medical dosimetry. They have both programs at my school but I heard some wouldn’t do it because medical dosimetry will die out due to technology advancements? Just something I saw on this subreddit.
Comments: 
No

Technology will make things more efficient but it’s not going to eliminate the need for humans in this field
It'll evolve from what it is today, just like it's done with every major new technological advancement in the field.
Won't die out, but I believe there will not be such a high demand. AAPM had a bunch of presentations of AI where dosi was essentially cut out. That said, physics won't step in to fill that roll. We are simply too busy with other things. What I believe can happen is that there will be one dosi for multiple sites so job availability MAY become an issue. That's still years away though.
	This.  I'd agree it's years away, but not decades.  It's a serious consideration for someone new entering the field.  Also, the physicist's workload is being greatly reduced by new technology, so that will free up more of their time to supervise the AI's.
As others have mentioned here, it will no doubt change from what it was and is now, but I think it will remain a vital service for the radiation field. I view things like this like Airline pilots: they used to do it all, some of their work was automated, and other non-automated roles were expanded, but they're still very much around and their skills very much important.
Everyone is saying no but the cold hard truth is that in all honesty, all the knowledge needed to do this exists it's really only a matter of refinement, edge cases, and non-technology related red tape. Dosimetrists working from home will accelerate this and the field will essentially be that of like a pilot and hopefully it's dosimetrists signing off on the software results. It won't go down to zero and it's far from happening, but it will be overnight the same way other technologies took over quickly (e.g SBRT). If Varian, Raystation, etc ever released a GOOD and polished self planning platform you could probably cut dosimetry staff in half at most non-academic institutions if it works as advertised. Doesn't mean you shouldn't become one, it just means you are not in the latest and greatest field of choice.
As AI and automation improves, the Dosimetrist career will definitely change and evolve. The number of Dosimetrists will likely decrease as well over time. However, you have at least 10-15 years before the technology is mature enough to be trusted and inexpensive enough for community cancer centers to afford. There will continue to be a role for Dosimetrists for the near and long term future. If it interests you go for it.
Agree with everyone else here. The organization I work with already uses AI for planning but not currently at my site. My specific clinic already has AI auto-contouring applied to every scan, and it does a pretty solid job. Don't really wanna doxx myself and name the tool but elsewhere scans are auto-contoured and sent directly into planning after the physicians target with pre-specified templates and parameters for optimization. My understanding is dosi will simply check the plan it spots out, tweak, etc so much more hands off than before. All that to say that yes - the role is changing and a lot is being optimized. However there will always be the need for a human dosi, and all of these fields are in a shortage at the moment anyways.
What advances?
