Post Title: Is there any realistic route for me to pursue military service at this point?
Post Content: Hey everyone, I have a fairly weird question, but I’m curious if anyone can help me out (or possibly talk some sense into me).

I’m currently a PhD student in med physics, therapy track, with plans of attending residency in about 2 years once I’m done. Here’s my issue: I really want to serve in the military, but I’m not sure how realistic it is with my timeline. The specifics of why I’d like to serve is another conversation for another time, right now I’m just seeking some advice. I don’t plan on going active duty, as I still want to maintain a civilian career, but the initial training is the same regardless of whether your enter active or reserve. That would mean about 6 months of full time training, if you consider basic+MOS school. I know there are technically protections in place for people entering reserve service, but it’s no secret that employers don’t love the idea of you leaving for half a year, especially in a field like ours where filling a position isn’t exactly trivial. 

Now, can anyone imagine a possible route for making this work? One thing I considered is taking a year between my PhD and residency, but I have no idea how bad of an idea that is. Another possibility would be taking time after my residency, but I have no idea how much that will hinder my job prospects. Maybe it would be possible to line up a job at a set date roughly 6-8 months following the completion of my residency? 

I’m just really not sure, and would love to hear from you guys. I know it’s a small community so the likelihood of someone having a similar experience is slim, and I also know a guy finishing his PhD with an almost-guaranteed high salary job waiting for him yet wanting to run off to boot camp seems insane, but alas. 

Thanks everyone!
Comments: 
Hey friend. 

I got a degree in premed and physics. I’m now in medical school but also a commissioned officer in the Army, through its scholarship program. I essentially made the choice to go to med school instead of a medical physics degree, which I was also accepted to. 

I think if you want to do the military, I might consider applying to to med school and joining the HPSP scholarship program. You can go into radiation oncology later if you like. 

If you join enlisted you won’t be an officer, and they won’t let you do medical physics most likely. However, I’m sure you could work for the VA or army as a medical physicist at a military hospital , like Walter reed etc.

Feel free to DM if you want to talk more.
	This is an interesting route, I actually did consider medicine for a while but I think I’d prefer to stay on the physics side of rad onc. Really appreciate your reply though!
		Don't do medicine it will ruin your life. 250k to work 9-5 with no call and no crazy patients. Priceless.
VA system might be right for you. They need therapy physicists and have to honor your military obligations.
	I’ll look into VA physics positions, thanks for the suggestion
Army Reservist here. You could just direct commission. You would start doing your weekend drills fairly soon. Within the first year or so you’d go to a 2 week direct commissioning course. Then a year or 2 after that you’d go to 6 weeks of Officer basic course. If you came in as a 72A Nucleaf Medicine Science Officer, you wouldn’t really have any other required training. So you could just do whatever short courses here and there you wanted. 

You need to get in touch with an AMEDD Reserve recruiter. This person will be an officer and can guide you through getting the application. 72As are rare and the amedd recruiter would love to sign one. 

Feel free to DM if you need help locating the recruiter or if you have any other questions.
	Thanks for this reply! I sent a chat
		This is the best way to go.  I’m currently a 72A active duty Army but was in the reserves for years before switching.  You could get a direct commission easily as a 72A Captain in the reserves.  No basic training or OCS.  You’d only go to Army Medical Department (AMEDD) Officer Basic Course (~8 weeks).  It’s extremely easy.  Basically, you’d be a military health physicist.  As 3oogerEater said, find an AMEDD specific recruiter and tell them very specifically that you want to be a Nuclear Medical Science Officer AOC 72A.  If they try to talk you into something else or say you aren’t qualified then ask for a different recruiter…bc that’s a lie.
			Thanks for the further input! So what is the training like for this position? Is there much field/combat training? And what kind of tasks do you perform in this role? When looking at the Army’s brief description, it seems somewhat similar to CBRN. How do 72A and 74A differ? Also, is there any reason to pick Reserves or Guard over the other? It would be awesome to get the student loan repayment benefit, would this be equally available for both?
				  There are two general categories of officers in the Army, the traditional branches and the special branches.  The traditional branches include chemical (74 series), infantry, armor, artillery, etc..  These require a lot of training since the Army assumes you have no background (e.g. English major becoming a CBRN officer).  So, basic training (assuming no ROTC - 8 weeks), then Officer Candidate School (very difficult - 12 weeks), then Officer Basic Course (easier branch specific job training - 4-10 months).  You'd be commissioned as a 2nd Lieutenant (2LT - first officer rank) and do more operational and leadership jobs, not technical.  
  The special branches include more technical officer jobs like JAG, Medical, Chaplain, Medical Service, etc..  The 72A is included in these as a Medical Service Corps officer.  The Army knows that you can't recruit Drs, lawyers, and scientists and send them through the traditional basic, OCS, OBC route so these are quite different.  You join, show up in San Antonio and they make you an officer on your first day.  You'd be a Captain (third officer rank) with a PhD.  You go to 2 months of training there with a bunch of nurses and scientist folks to teach you the basic Army medical info.  It's pretty cake tbh but they do NOT teach you how to be a 72A- health physicist; they assume you know how to do that the same way a nurse knows how to do their job after college.  The military does have separate HP training opportunities but not for your initial training.  I can give you information on that on PM.
  As for your duties...it depends on your unit but you'd essentially be an advisor on radiation effects and radiation protection.  This can range from low-dose exposures at hospitals to health effects due to nuclear warfare.  Don't worry, no one knows this stuff when they first join but you'll find out where to learn it.  
    74A vs 72A... Depends on what you want.  The 74A will work with soldiers more and work in a field environment more but NOT use your technical knowledge much until you're higher in rank (years from now).  The 72A doesn't lead soldiers as much but has an important advisory role.  You'd be the expert on radiation effects. I've done both traditional and special branches.  I loved being a leader of young soldiers as a traditional officer but, with a PhD, you should be a 72A.  The traditional route is long and would take you away from medical physics work for a while.
  Reserves vs NG...You don't really have a choice as a 72A.  The guard only has one 72A position per state and those are full-time positions.  The closest reserve unit with open 72A positions may be many states away but, due to your specialized skills, they will typically work with you for how and when you go for your monthly and annual training requirements.
  Loan Repayment...I don't know tbh.  Typically these are for either enlistments or for officers that are currently active duty and want to extend.  I doubt it's and option but it can't hurt to ask.
  This is a long post so DM me if you want more info. I can tell you some of the good and bad of it all.  I'm not a recruiter so will give you the no BS version.
					  There are two general categories of officers in the Army, the traditional branches and the special branches.  The traditional branches include chemical (74 series), infantry, armor, artillery, etc..  These require a lot of training since the Army assumes you have no background (e.g. English major becoming a CBRN officer).  So, basic training (assuming no ROTC - 8 weeks), then Officer Candidate School (very difficult - 12 weeks), then Officer Basic Course (easier branch specific job training - 4-10 months).  You'd be commissioned as a 2nd Lieutenant (2LT - first officer rank) and do more operational and leadership jobs, not technical.  
  The special branches include more technical officer jobs like JAG, Medical, Chaplain, Medical Service, etc..  The 72A is included in these as a Medical Service Corps officer.  The Army knows that you can't recruit Drs, lawyers, and scientists and send them through the traditional basic, OCS, BOLC route so these are quite different.  You join, show up in San Antonio and they make you an officer on your first day.  You'd be a Captain (third officer rank) with a PhD.  You go to 2 months of training there (BOLC) with a bunch of nurses and scientist folks to teach you the basic Army medical info.  It's pretty cake tbh but they do NOT teach you how to be a 72A- health physicist; they assume you know how to do that the same way a nurse knows how to do their job after college.  The military does have separate HP training opportunities but not for your initial training.  I can give you information on that on PM.
  As for your duties...it depends on your unit but you'd essentially be an advisor on radiation effects and radiation protection.  This can range from low-dose exposures at hospitals to health effects due to nuclear warfare.  Don't worry, no one knows this stuff when they first join but you'll find out where to learn it.  
    74A vs 72A... Depends on what you want.  The 74A will work with soldiers more and work in a field environment more but NOT use your technical knowledge much until you're higher in rank (years from now).  The 72A doesn't lead soldiers as much but has an important advisory role.  You'd be the expert on radiation effects. I've done both traditional and special branches.  I loved being a leader of young soldiers as a traditional officer but, with a PhD, you should be a 72A.  The traditional route is long and would take you away from medical physics work for a while.
  Reserves vs NG...You don't really have a choice as a 72A.  The guard only has one 72A position per state and those are full-time positions.  The closest reserve unit with open 72A positions may be many states away but, due to your specialized skills, they will typically work with you for how and when you go for your monthly and annual training requirements.
  Loan Repayment...I don't know tbh.  Typically these are for either enlistments or for officers that are currently active duty and want to extend.  I doubt it's and option but it can't hurt to ask.
  This is a long post so DM me if you want more info. I can tell you some of the good and bad of it all.  I'm not a recruiter so will give you the no BS version.


EDIT:  Apparently there is a shortened medical entry course (BOLC) for reserve officers.  So, you’d do some online prep, then do 2 weeks of training in SA instead of 2 months.  This is likely bc it’s difficult to get physicians and PhDs in months of training around residencies and post-docs.  I’m not sure if it’s for all medical specialties though.
			Did you get a sign on bonus?
