Post Title: [Training Tuesday] - Weekly thread for questions about grad school, residency, and general career topics 07/05/2022
Post Content: This is the place to ask questions about graduate school, training programs, or general basic career topics. If you are just learning about the field and want to know if it is something you should explore, this thread is probably the correct place for those first few questions on your mind.

Examples: 

* "I majored in Surf Science and Technology in undergrad, is Medical Physics right for me?"
* "I can't decide between Biomedical Engineering and Medical Physics..."
* "Do Medical Physicists get free CT scans for life?"
* "Masters vs. PhD"
* "How do I prepare for Residency interviews?"
Comments: 
[deleted]
	Consider reaching out to medical or biology researchers who work with imaging. They might find your physics and computational background an asset. There are many researchers who work in medical physics adjacent fields who could help you get good experience.
	Computational physics would give you a lot of transferable skills.

In any case, I wouldn’t sweat it too much if you don’t get medical physics experience in your undergrad.
Any general advice for new residents?

What tips do you have for making the residency more productive?

What did/do you guys use for taking/keeping notes?

Thanks in Advance!
	It’s a job: don’t overwork yourself. Make sure to disconnect outside of work and enjoy life. 

But also, you get as much as you put in. So take every opportunity to learn as much as you can from as many different people as you can. 

I used a paper notebook, but wish I had used something like OneNote instead. In my current clinical job, I use OneNote for everything. I always have it with me (on my phone) and search is super fast, so it’s easy to find whatever I’m looking for, even if it’s been years.
Hello! I am a Physics undergrad from Singapore entering my final/senior year. I wish to pursue a career in Medical Physics. That being said, no graduate programmes are offered in Singapore for Medical Physics. I want to look into graduate programs in the UK/US. May I know which universities should I look out for and how do I progress my career from there on?
	Hi, here is the list for CAMPEP accredited grad programs for USA: https://campep.org/campeplstgrad.asp

Not sure where to look for the UK
I’ve recently gotten my bachelors in physics and am currently working full time as an engineering technician. I want to work for a year to save some money before applying to online MSMP programs that are available. My questions are 

1. Are online programs from accredited universities generally comparable to in person?

2. I’d like to keep my job I’m working now for the income it provides. Would it be reasonable to be a student full-time too or would the stresses of the program plus a job make that more difficult than it needs to be?

Thank you for any advice you can give!
	I'd personally not advise for an online program (whether or not it has CAMPEP accreditation or not) *unless* your job is giving you significant clinical (or perhaps a mix of research and clinical) experience (in either radiotherapy, nucmed or imaging, whichever floats your boat). This isn't to say you won't learn the same didactics (CAMPEP checks for that), but rather you'll be at a disadvantage when it comes time to apply for residency.

Match rates are typically low (~60% for MS for example), and a recent survey paper showed that the number one thing directors want in candidates is clinical readiness (ie how quickly can they get you incorporated into clinical work), that's the labor they get from you in exchange for training, afterall. Without some level of clinical experience it will likely be an uphill battle to match. That's not to say it's impossible (my co-residents have little experience in even PSQA, for example, but they made up for it in the fit aspect), or that clinical experience guarantees matching (fit is also a big factor), it'll just be more difficult. 

Another option could be to supplement the online didactics with a decent amount of clinical shadowing. Perhaps you could contact local physicists and see if they're willing to help with that? Definitely need to consider this carefully.

As for working during the program, it depends. In my cohort, nobody worked afaik. But in the cohort after, some would babysit regularly, some worked in restaurants part-time, etc. I don't believe any worked full-time, especially with the demands of the program. Some programs explicitly prohibit you from working more than a certain amount of hours. That said, our program was in-person with a lot of clinical experience and extra-curricular work (thesis, optional TA for some, etc), that may vary with online programs.

Hope this helps.
		Thank you so much for the information. I’ll take all of this into consideration. I guess most people take loans to pay for tuition and use any of their work income for supporting themselves. Is that right? Do grad students get paid during their clinicals? That would make me feel better if that was the case. I’ve done some TA work before so I could probably do some of that in whatever program I end up in.
			Sorry for the late response. As for getting paid for clinical work, it depends. Most programs will be upfront about it since it's something that can attract more applicants. The amount you get paid I imagine varies wildly (depending on the rate and hours worked), in my case it was a decent rate, but certainly not enough hours to cover living expenses. For that reason the loans I took went to both tuition and living expenses (I didn't work outside of the program). 

Do keep in mind that in the US, the max amount of student loans you can request per year is capped at whatever your program certifies as the degrees "cost of attendance", it's very to difficult to get any more than that. The CoA usually includes a part for tuition and a part for living expenses. Many programs' will say the living expenses calculation in the area are much lower than they actually are to artificially appear like a more cost-friendly program. So, if you rely purely on loans, I'd recommend frugal living and a roommate (many have a roommate from within the program) to help reduce costs. But yes, if the program permits and you can manage your time well, a part-time job or something like that would go a long way in helping you get through it. 

In the end, it's a gamble. I took out a significant amount of student loans on the gamble that I would perform well in the program and match into residency. Once you're a physicist in the US, the money is worth it. The trick is matching into a residency.
