Post Title: Would you include this in your CV
Post Content: Happy Monday all!

I hope everyone has a brilliant week. My situation is a bit odd so I’ll get right to it. Right when I started my PhD the COVID pandemic struck. After a couple months I decided to try streaming on Twitch as a hobby. The hobby actually turned into a part time job. I would wake up at 4:45 am to stream until 8 am, then do my research for the remainder of the day. This became my schedule Monday-Friday for nearly 2 years. 

I eventually got verified on Twitch and monetized my YouTube channel as well (+10,000 subscribers). I was making more from my stream than what my stipend provided. My stream was originally based on debunking COVID misinformation, but eventually grew to me giving my opinions on sociopolitical events and having conversations/ interviews with interesting people. Additionally all my content creation was done under a pseudonym and I never made any connection to my professional career.

I just recently stopped creating content to focus on the final stretch of my PhD and to start applying for med phys residency positions. 

My question is; should I include this on my CV as extra curricular activities or do you think it’s too random/ unrelated. 

What would you do?

Thanks ❤️
Comments: 
If I was in your shoes, I would include it. Beyond your CV it’s a really good conversation topic. Many important skills can be gleaned through streaming/video production, if you frame it well. If this hobby was seen as a negative by an institution, I would not want to attend there. Just my 2 cents. Best of luck!
	Agreed. If you wouldn't mind working for a denier though, you might want to just have a version without it to send to southern institutions.
Considering that it sounds like a lot of your discussion was health science based, I would absolutely include it. The evaluators could actually verify that you are good at science communication, rather than taking your word for it or the word of a former professor.
People really are interested in your overall personality while hiring you. They are looking someone who's confident enough in expanding their horizons. Because let's be honest every one develops basic skill set required for work over the time. But not everyone is curious enough. And it's not some lousy ticktoks, it's important. You have contributed in someway and more that than that you it's the intention that matters.
So i strongly believe that you should go ahead with it. 
All the best.
I’ll take the other side here, just to get you another perspective to consider. You mentioned several topics completely unrelated to the field (sociopolitical, etc.). In today’s day and age, a person’s political opinions are often sought out as a means to knock them, especially if they can be considered controversial in any way. This is an unfortunate reality, so I would tread pretty lightly here. It seems to me that employers may look at Social Media posts of their prospective employees pretty regularly, and they’ve taken care in providing training to keep your own personal views separate from the “views of the organization” as it can reflect on the organization, positively or negatively. I’m not endorsing that particular stance as it can become a slippery slope, but I am cautioning that if you include that, be prepared to have it considered negatively. Personally, I think it’s great that you’ve had success in this area that is basically untouched in the field today. And if your content was relevant to the field, I’d absolutely include it. It sounds to me like it is not though, and therefore my recommendation is caution. Best of luck in your applications and finishing research in any case!
I would definitely include it. I would be more hesitant if you were planning to keep up that streaming schedule during residency, in which case you might want to avoid perceived conflict of commitment (regardless of how valid that concern is).

So if you're willing to say that you've finished that chapter, it's all upside to include it. If you want to pick it back up, I might be a little more careful about giving certain details (time of day, hours per week, etc.). If the latter is the case, you also might consider taking this post down... it's a small field, and your situation is unique.
	"Conflict of Commitment" This is literally the second time I've ever encountered this phrase. The first was in an oral board question 🤣
While interesting, it’s irrelevant to your ability to do physics. Other than typos in a CV, my second largest pet peeve when reviewing CV/applications is irrelevant information. To date, my most annoying tidbit has been someone noting their Boy Scout experience 10 years prior. 

That being no said, by no means are you prohibited from discussing it should you be brought on-site and it comes up naturally in conversations. It is a cool thing you like to do.
