Post Title: [Training Tuesday] - Weekly thread for questions about grad school, residency, and general career topics 08/23/2022
Post Content: This is the place to ask questions about graduate school, training programs, or general basic career topics. If you are just learning about the field and want to know if it is something you should explore, this thread is probably the correct place for those first few questions on your mind.

Examples: 

* "I majored in Surf Science and Technology in undergrad, is Medical Physics right for me?"
* "I can't decide between Biomedical Engineering and Medical Physics..."
* "Do Medical Physicists get free CT scans for life?"
* "Masters vs. PhD"
* "How do I prepare for Residency interviews?"
Comments: 
[deleted]
	This is the exact right thread to post on, thank you for posting! What about medical physics is interesting to you? Is it the technology, the research, the potential for making an impact on patients using physics? I think most redditors who are active in the field (there's some exceptions though) would probably recommend physics to you \*if\* you are the right kind of person for the field (i.e. methodical, pay attention to detail, good communicator). Just be aware the training is long and you have to learn a lot.  I think if you want to narrow your choices somewhat try to spend some time in a hospital environment, either by shadowing a physicist or doing some volunteer work in a clinic, and see if that is something you like.
		[deleted]
			A radiology technologist (RT) is the person who acquires the images.  Depending on what part of the world you're in, they do no image interpretation, or some interpretation of a limited set of studies (such as in the UK where they're usually called radiographers).

Radiologists are physicians who do the primary interpretation of the imaging and perform some types of radiographic procedures.

Both are very different professions and have different training requirements, and are also very different from medical physics.
				Galactium are you based in the US? I know that there are some countries that have the radiologist reading stations in the control room (that way if there are issues with the images the rad can just ask for a repeat right there), but I have never heard of the radiologist actually running the scanner before.
How long does it usually take to hear back from journals like JACMP?
	I'd give it about 3-4 weeks or so from when you submitted before starting to worry.
[deleted]
	Generally there is just one mandatory biology course (radiation biology) in a master's program. A lot of programs require that you have an anatomy and physiology course to apply, and that should cover a lot of basic cell stuff (DNA, apoptosis, etc) that is necessary to understand the rad bio stuff. If you are already done with undergrad I'll check if you can take an A&P course as a non-degree student at your old school or a community college (whatever its equivalent is in Ireland).
Astrophysics undergrad here, how important is research experience for CAMPEP grad school? There are so many students scrounging for experience like I am and I’m starting to panic I won’t get any. I assume it really hurts if you’re applying for PhD and probably hurts a bit less for masters?

It’s tough getting internships as a physics undergrad rn man. Anyone have any advice?
	In lieu of research experience, programs will look favorably at clinical experience.  Try to find a clinic that you can volunteer at, they may even have a project for you to work on once you learn the basics.

Otherwise, maybe try for research positions outside of your department?  The paid positions at my undergrad were very competitive, but professors were usually more than willing to let someone volunteer in the lab.
		OP is correct in that usually PhD programs want to see research experience though, even if it's volunteer and/or doesn't result in publication. At least a couple semesters should be good.
			Yeah I figured, thanks. I’m trying my best to get any sort of research experience but it’s tough man, everyone and their grandmother is competing for a very small amount of the available spots and I’m really getting disheartened :/
I'm getting my bachelor's in medical physics (not in the USA), however I plan to eventually immigrating, for example if I get my residency will count on something or should I after my bachelor's just apply for a masters in the us?
	Residencies in the US will invariably require a graduate degree. Your bachelors may be helpful in getting into grad school but you cannot go directly to residency with it.
		Oh, I meant if I get my residency in my country, something I can get with only my undergrad and after that eventually immigrating.
			EDIT: found something here: [https://www.theabr.org/medical-physics/initial-certification/international-medical-graduates](https://www.theabr.org/medical-physics/initial-certification/international-medical-graduates)
				Thank you!
What pre-requisite biology courses should I familiarize that is necessary for an MS/PhD in Medical Physics? 

I am an incoming second year physics major and I took a course on fundamentals of biology where we mostly studied morpho- and microanatomy of plant and animal organs. Unfortunately it's an introductory biology course so we didn't touch mechanisms of mutation, radiobiology, and tumorigenesis.

Should I read up on cancer, biochemistry, and the like? How strong of a foundation should I establish?
	In my experience, Anatomy and Physiology is the only non-physics course required by some programs, but most don't expect you to have taken the course before graduate school.  However, a background in the biology courses you mentioned wouldn't hurt and might be of interest for PhD programs who do research in that area.
Is there anyone here that can supply me with a PDF of Bushbergs “The Essential physics of medical imaging” 4th edition?
	Search on be-ok.cc
It has a lot of goodbooks
	Got the previous edition on thriftbooks for $5 - hard cover. Idk if that’s helpful but I’m just using it as a reference.
	Is there a lot different from the 3rd edition? I have a pdf of 3rd and figured that is sufficient for most everything.
I have a physics degree, research experience, and I'm currently working in aerospace engineering (as a simulation modeling engineer) I'm also halfway through an MS in applied physics that I'm doing part-time. Recently-ish (in the last few months) I realized I want to get a doctorate in medical physics. I found a program that I think will work for me (CAMPEP certified, sort of designed for people who took the long way around) but I'm not sure what, if anything, I can do to make sure my application is as strong as possible. I have about 2 years before graduating with my MS. I'm concerned that I don't have any of the medical background and that I'm coming from an aerospace career. Any advice?
	[deleted]
		My undergrad GPA was less than ideal (I did very well in my upper level classes but I had some medical issues around sophomore year that tanked my grades). I also don't have super relevant research experience, but I'll have some (more relevant) design projects under my belt with this MS. Some of it was quantum optics, which I guess is sort of tangentially related, but I'm kind of hoping that this will improve my chances somehow. My current GPA for the masters is 4.0.
How to find a job for medical imaging industries (Siemens, GE, etc.)?

I'm about to complete my master's degree in physics, specializing in medical physics and imaging. How to contact and enter these companies to do R&D?
	There's a great AAPM Working Group for Non-Clinical Professionals (WGNC) that I want to shout out that do seminars/discussions on jobs/careers in medical physics outside the clinic.  Getting in touch with them and seeing if they have any upcoming webinars or things like that may be useful.  


The more you can do to find out what *specific* things those *specific* teams you are trying to join are working on, the better.  I mean, as specific as you can get.  "I know a lot about CT scanners" is less good than "I am really interested in the performance limits of the *specific* detector materials and electronics you use, in this *specific* system, and how we can make them more accurate/reliable/whatever."  The engineers working on the R&D of systems will typically spends years (5-10 years) on a single system, with most of them working for that duration on a single subsystem for the overall product.  They are very interested in candidates who can bring intelligence and productivity to bear on a very narrow, highly defined problem space.  Likewise, talking about the specific problems you dealt with (or even solved!) in any projects or research you may have done, both in the resume and in the interview, is likelier to attract interest than a general listing of courses and textbooks you've completed.

&#x200B;

If you join a giant conglomerate like Siemens or GE, it is unlikely you will work on a general class of things in your first role there - you will want to make yourself an attractive candidate to the actual team of 5-10 people you will be working with directly.  If you join a smaller company, you may find yourself with a broader range of responsibilities earlier on.

&#x200B;

Getting your first industry job can be a bit of a hustle, but it is if anything probably a little more straightforward than clinical job hunting.  I might be a little biased, but a 3-9 month internship is a really good way to learn a lot about the industry, and can sometimes be converted into a full time position.
		Thanks a lot for the answer!
Is this group open also for students outside the US/offers ideas in Europe? I haven't specified it but I'm graduating in Italy (but with courses and thesis in English)
			I think most AAPM groups are focused on the NA region, but I'm sure they're welcoming.  You do have to be a AAPM member to join.  I meant more along the line of seeing when they may have another webinar, or other resources they can direct you to.

I am not really familiar with the environment for careers in medical physics/imaging in Europe, but I believe there are quite a few well known radiotherapy companies in Germany, as well as the UK and Scandinavia.
