Post Title: Join us for a Non-Clinical Careers AMA October 11!
Post Content: This ask me anything (AMA) is a follow-up from the recent AAPM Webinar: AAPM Webinar Series on Non-Clinical Medical Physics Careers, Resources, Opportunities and Networking (2022) ([https://www.aapm.org/meetings/default.asp](https://www.aapm.org/meetings/default.asp)). We encourage you to watch the webinar and then ask additional questions here on reddit! Questions will be answered on **October 11**.

The webinar speakers and moderators will be available to answer your questions:

* Anuj Kapadia, PhD; Distinguished R&D Staff, Section Head at Oak Ridge National Lab (representing academic research careers)
* /u/PhotonClub \- Brandon Nelson, PhD; ORISE Fellow, Food and Drug Administration (representing regulatory and government careers)
* /u/jrcmedphys \- Jennifer Clark, MS; Customer Success Manager at Sun Nuclear (representing industry careers)
* /u/CATScan1898 \- Alison Roth, PhD; Postdoctoral Fellow at Barrow Neurological Institute (Moderator)
* /u/DABRCarlos Carlos Bohorquez, MS; Product Manager at Lifeline Software, Inc. (Moderator)
Comments: 
I enjoyed the webinar. I know the diagnostic field is much smaller and by its nature doesn’t lend itself to remote work, but I was wondering if anyone on the panel has any experience with imaging roles.
	I do! I’m currently in FDA’s Division of Imaging, Diagnostics, and Software Reliability: https://www.fda.gov/about-fda/cdrh-offices/division-imaging-diagnostics-and-software-reliability

It’s a very strong division with lots of research and expertise in diagnostic imaging. The Division conducts regulatory science research (how to better evaluate imaging devices ) and serves as technical experts for FDA submissions regarding medical imaging devices.

There are many opportunities for imaging and remote work at the FDA spanning the spectrum from research to regulatory review.
		This sounds really interesting. Thanks for your reply!
		[deleted]
			I am a postdoc, so I can only speak to what I know,  which is that the compensation is equivalent to industry postdocs (at least at Genentech where I was also applying).

However, It was explained to me by a staffer that Title 42: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Title_42_appointment

Can be used to hire PhDs and MDs and is intended to be competitive with the private sector:
“Title 42 appointments are intended to attract and retain scientific personnel by providing hiring flexibility and salaries that are competitive with the private sector.”

And that could be what your colleague was referring to.

The compensation for most positions is actually posted online
https://www.fda.gov/about-fda/scientific-internships-fellowships-trainees-and-non-us-citizens/fdas-staff-fellowship-program

However is it in GS pay scale which you then need to look up in a another table:

https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/pay-leave/salaries-wages/2022/general-schedule/
			I can speak to my postdoc (fairly equivalent to residency salary) and my future job (doesn't not pay as well as a clinical position, but the expectation is to not work more than 40 hours/week, comes with a lot of flexibility, and is remote). It's also my first job post-postdoc and I'm not certain what you expect to make in your first clinical position.

My husband just started as an assistant professor a year ago (no clinical duties) and makes about $20k more than my new salary (assuming he pays himself during the summers). That being said, he is much more stressed than I anticipate being in my new job, so tradeoffs. His position is also why I pretty much have to be remote.
	I don't have any direct personal experience with imaging roles but I know my company has an imaging products division, so I would assume the roles there (product manager, product physicist, etc.) function similarly to my experience within the therapy division. Happy to answer questions on what that looks like if you are interested.

The preference is definitely for candidates with clinical experience. For Imaging Product Director, for example: "Minimum of 5 years of experience with healthcare product development and/or diagnostic imaging clinical experience is required. Preference to candidates with a clinical diagnostic medical physics or medical engineering background."

And our parent company has other roles related to imaging in the "true" industry (non-medical) sense as well. So there are definitely options.
	I know that there are diagnostic positions available in industry. Especially with the MR and PET linacs that are under continued development. There are also software development roles that pop up, as well as support and training roles.
	Imaging roles are becoming increasingly important in medical physics, particularly in radiology departments across the country. I have worked with many colleagues in clinical imaging, and almost all of them find the job to be rewarding and satisfying. I myself have been a medical imaging  researcher for much of my life, and the research aspects are truly stimulating (in all fairness that is likely true about most research fields, not imaging alone).
	I am on the more imaging side of medical physics. While it would be difficult to perform instrumentation and perhaps QA remotely, image analysis is easy to do remotely. I have been working remotely during my postdoc for the last year (image analysis research) and will soon start a new job working at an imaging-specific CRO ([https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contract\_research\_organization](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contract_research_organization)). I also looked at some other image analysis/research type positions in industry while applying for jobs. So they do exist!
Any advice for those of us looking to make the transition from academia to industry, particularly in imaging? Such as what I should expect, expectation differences between me and the employer, smoothly transitioning so as not to burn bridges, etc.

Thank you for hosting this, I missed the webinar due to a conflict.
	Again I can't speak to imaging specifically, but the transition from clinic to industry was of particular concern to me. I spent several hours talking to my then-future boss about what the expectations would be before applying, and used a decent chunk of my interview time asking my soon-to-be colleagues similar questions. Thankfully, it didn't scare them off.

At its core, it kind of came down to learning a new set of procedures to follow, which should be pretty straightforward to a physicist. We largely operate by procedure, after all. So I had to learn the "product development process" including the way to approach defining requirements for the features, testing methods, and especially the expectations for medical devices & software that are FDA approved and/or ISO certified, plus a lot of international regulations like CE marks (for Europe) etc.

I should add that we have a Regulatory division who are responsible for knowing these things inside and out and shepherding our product paperwork through that process. So that's a role that someone might be interested in. But on the development team I just needed to be familiar with it so that what we did with the product would be in line with what Regulatory needed.

There's also the language and process around software development, which again a lot of physicists already know some coding or at least the theory behind it. But for example getting familiar with the difference between "Waterfall" and "Agile" software development, "sprints" and "scrums" and other terminology.

As for expectation differences with employer, in my experience there isn't a ton of difference between industry and clinical, but I can't speak to academic. Industry is a pretty "stereotypical" business environment, imo, in terms of working hours, managerial structure, benefits packages, etc. 

Lastly, the transition went very smoothly for me as I left my clinic on good terms and stayed in contact with all of my clinical peers. Over time as I became more involved in AAPM and other professional activities, those bridges back to the clinical field strengthened as opposed to burning.
		I might also add that you may have more of a structured hierarchy in industry compared to a true academic position where you are basically your own boss until it comes time to assess tenure. This would be a good thing to discuss during interviews like Jenny said.

I also don't think that you need to burn any bridges. I am moving from academia (postdoc) to industry and am leaving on good terms. I think you can make it clear that you're making the switch because you want to try something different, not because of your institution.
Question from the webinar: For those who have experienced both clinical and industry, how do you compare work/life balance, flexibility? Also, does your job involve travel?
	This was mentioned really well during the webinar, but work/life balance really depends on you as and advocate for yourself. In both clinic and industry there is much work and lean processes. It is important to prioritize the day to day responsibilities in any role as well as making sure of knowing when to say no. I have worked clinical jobs where 60 hours was a good week, and I have been in industry roles where sometimes a few 60 hour weeks resulted from a new release or a tradeshow.  Having a good repour with your employer will help establish boundaries for a good balance.

One benefit of industry for me has been the ability to work from home and be home with my loved ones. However, I have had roles where I was gone 6 days a week....

On the other hand, I have run into more and more physicists in the clinic where they have 1 or 2 day remote rotations, as well as one acquaintance that supports a clinic fully remote.  

It doesn't really matter if the job is clinical or industry, what matters more is the individual roles and the boundaries we set.
Question from the webinar: How can a industry physicist maintain their board certification in case they want to come back to a clinical setting?
	We will have a webinar geared to this question specifically. However, brief answer is that your employer can assist in this by providing opportunities to maintain your MOC. This was a group topic while at a previous industry employer and in a smaller setting you have to advocate for yourself to request the appropriate opportunities.
Question from the webinar: What is the day-to-day like in regulation?
	Here's reply from the webinar, but I'm happy  to extend or address any specific aspects if there's interest:

For me a mix of research (experiments, reading, writing, presenting) and meetings where ongoing regulatory challenges with specific products being actively reviewed are discussed between the physicists and review team.

For those more senior in staff fellow positions, you are responsible for the technical aspects of these reviews and actually writing up the review and submitting it (similar to a paper peer review but with more focus on evaluation than methods). These technical reviewers can then present these in team meetings to get help from other members on the team.

Members in my divisions (DIDSR) span the whole spectrum of 100% research --> 50%research/50% regulatory review --> 100% regulatory review
Question from the webinar: How can an MS graduate with no certification can step into a government or regulatory authorities with no clinical experience? what is expected out of such candidates?
	Again, my reply from webinar, happy to expand if asked:

ORISE, is one specific, great opportunity to get your foot in the door for any level of experience and variable length of time: https://orise.orau.gov/fda/
Question from the webinar: How common are part-time, remote opportunities for someone with 30 years in clinical and academic setting?  (MS, DABR)
	I would also say that if you see a position that you think could be performed remotely, but the ad doesn't say it is - reach out and ask if it would be possible to be a hybrid or remote employee. It would be best to talk to some employees at the company to find out who the best person to reach out to would be. I know when I was looking for a new job, I needed it to be located in the little town we live in (husband's job) or remote.
	There are many remote opportunities in clinical and industry. I am sure the same applies to academics. There is a regulatory side of industry as well and I am sure that consultants are utilized in many areas.
Was this recorded?
	Yes, but you need to be logged in to AAPM to view: [https://www.aapm.org/meetings/webinars/WGNCWebinarSeriesNo1.asp](https://www.aapm.org/meetings/webinars/WGNCWebinarSeriesNo1.asp)

You can also navigate to this and other webinars from the AAPM webinars page: [https://www.aapm.org/meetings/default.asp?tab=5#MeetingsPanel](https://www.aapm.org/meetings/default.asp?tab=5#MeetingsPanel)
Question from the webinar: "Jennifer, you said that the job posting sounded like it was written for you. What experiences and skillsets did you have that allowed you to make that transition from clinical to industry?   
What skillsets do you think are important in a clinical physicist who wants to make the transition and be succesful? What are some weaknesses?"
Question from the webinar: How difficult is it to transition back to a clinical career?
	From many of the physicists I know that have gone back to the clinic, it is not difficult. Especially right now. :)
