Post Title: [Training Tuesday] - Weekly thread for questions about grad school, residency, and general career topics 01/11/2022
Post Content: This is the place to ask questions about graduate school, training programs, or general basic career topics. If you are just learning about the field and want to know if it is something you should explore, this thread is probably the correct place for those first few questions on your mind.

Examples: 

* "I majored in Surf Science and Technology in undergrad, is Medical Physics right for me?"
* "I can't decide between Biomedical Engineering and Medical Physics..."
* "Do Medical Physicists get free CT scans for life?"
* "Masters vs. PhD"
* "How do I prepare for Residency interviews?"
Comments: 
[deleted]
	Depends on the program. Some accept on application alone, no interview. Some do just a phone interview. Some normally have in-person interviews but that will likely be virtual do to Covid. I know UW-Madison hasn't done interviews yet. Its still plenty early to have optimism.
Is failing ABR part 1 a deal-breaker for getting a residency? I think I'm an overall good applicant but idk how well I did on this trivia filled exam.
	No, and the application form doesn't technically require that you disclose that you failed (unless it's recently been changed).  So the only way they'll know is to ask you directly.
	No
When should we be expecting residency programs to have reached out to most candidates by? I applied to a little over 20 programs and have yet to hear back from any whatsoever. 

From what I saw on the sheet floating around, the interviews are starting in the next couple of weeks. I'm just wondering if it's still too soon to panic or not. I'd appreciate any input.
	I'm in a very similar situation and don't know if I should be panicking.
	I don't know if you applied for therapy or imaging. I'm on imaging and got some interviews next week, I know some therapy friends who got like 1 or 2 contacts so far. There's still plenty of time, there's a lot of applicants for Therapy so takes a while to go over, give it another week or 2
	here you can find out what is happening 

https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1hnH\_EhopdAqZ0DTg9eyX66E4\_g5uCCsH5uwIxmKfZ0k/edit#gid=683124263
	It is not the time to panic quite yet, specially because a lot of programs are only now going through the applications. Some programs only call a few applicants for the quick screening interview, others call everybody. But I suggest everybody to look at the spreadsheet that has been shared. There is a good sense of collaboration going on there, an there is a lot of updates being posted as the applicants get emails, phone calls or smoke signals about the interviews process. That should give you some closure from some of the programs and hope for others.
	I applied to 43 programs, 3 outside the match. I've had only 2 invites from my match applications. Both interviews are set for February. Feels a bit odd for sure. Plus 2/40 seems hilariously low.
Is it recommended to send a thank you email after a first round residency pre-interview?
	Depends on the program. Some places don't recommend it, like Wisconsin and UCSD (iirc).
Does anyone here attend UCLA’s PBM PhD program or has attended their Candidates’ Weekend? I got an invite and was hoping to see what other people’s past experiences were. Thanks!
	Hello, have you heard from UCLA again after they sent the interview invitation?  I got the invitation as well, but haven't received any new info about the interview time or schedule, so I am wondering whether anyone has an idea.
		Hi! The program director said he’d get back to us around tomorrow because they haven’t decided whether the Candidates’ Weekend would be conducted in-person. That’s what the original email said at least
			Oh I see, thanks for the information! I am an international applicant, and the mail I got said there are going to be remote interviews and poster sessions and that the interviews will not start until the end of this month or even February.
				Ah I see. I’m a domestic applicant, so maybe my email was a little different. He only mentioned that the Candidates’ Weekend was originally planned in-person for February 25-26 and that the admissions committee was hoping to know by January 21 (today) whether in-person interviews would be safe. Nothing about posters
	Hi! I’m currently a student in the UCLA program and am happy to answer any questions you’ve got!
		Thank you! Do you mind if I contact over DM?
			Sure, I'm a student rep for our program so ask anything you'd like!
[deleted]
	A lot of us have good life-work balance although it can vary by clinic. Some physicists work 60 hours per week. Some work around 40. I typically put in 43ish and twice a year have a long weekend where I'm working on the machines.
	https://www.aapm.org/students/prospective.asp
[deleted]
	Had the same question haha!!
		[deleted]
			Honestly I am just hoping to get an acceptance under my belt so that I can relax a little!
	I also received an invitation! I would treat it as competitively as you would treat any other part of your application. They almost certainly invited more people than they have spots for. Good luck!!
	Usually an invitation to interview means they're interviewing several people more than the number of positions they have.
	Imaging or therapy?
I would probably email the program director and ask. I learnt that I got rejected from UCLA that way (not saying that you too are rejected if not interviewed)
	[deleted]
		Yeah, I meant this year
			[deleted]
				Don't worry about it too much even if you were rejected! I am sure you'll have better opportunities come your way!!
What is the MEMP program at MIT like? Is it good for a career in medical physics in general?
	That program is not CAMPEP accredited, so if you want to continue onto a clinical medical physics career, then you will be required to take a year long certificate course after finishing your PhD which will be on your own dime. The list of CAMPEP accredited graduate programs is here: [https://www.campep.org/campeplstgrad.asp](https://www.campep.org/campeplstgrad.asp). Of course you may not want to be a clinical physicist, so that may not be a problem for you, just make sure you know what you want to do next.
