Post Title: [Training Tuesday] - Weekly thread for questions about grad school, residency, and general career topics 04/19/2022
Post Content: This is the place to ask questions about graduate school, training programs, or general basic career topics. If you are just learning about the field and want to know if it is something you should explore, this thread is probably the correct place for those first few questions on your mind.

Examples: 

* "I majored in Surf Science and Technology in undergrad, is Medical Physics right for me?"
* "I can't decide between Biomedical Engineering and Medical Physics..."
* "Do Medical Physicists get free CT scans for life?"
* "Masters vs. PhD"
* "How do I prepare for Residency interviews?"
Comments: 
I'm an Applied Physics undergrad.  At my school, that basically means E&M 1 and Quantum 1 plus some STEM electives (you can basically choose what you want as long as you justify it to your advisor).  I plan on taking at least a couple data/computer classes, what other classes will help me out the most?
	Try to take an A&P class before you graduate as some programs require one.
		\+1 for A&P. I regret not doing it in undergrad as I have to figure out when to take it now. Also I heard that graduate level A&P might be required for CAMPEP accreditation in the coming years.
How much more helpful/useful is it to be promoted to chief resident? Does it significantly help out with salary or job position after residency?
	Maybe if there are a bunch of other residents and you were the only one promoted it may look good on the resume. My residency only had two residents (1 per year) pretty easy to become chief resident. There are a lot of similar residencies out there to mine, so not a lot of emphasis is given to being the chief resident.
How do physicians view medical physicists? Do they view medical physicists as glorified technicians, or do they see them as people with equal professionalism?
	As valued members of the healthcare team. The ones that don't view us that way aren't worth getting worked up over.
	They look at us like the colleague that will make their dosimetric dream come true (if it is possible)

Honestly, in my experience, they look for medical physicists to guide them to give patients what they need with all the safeguards. It is a two-way relationship but since the outcome is a medical prescription, they do the final prescription approval. It is just different training. They do the medicine part, we do the physics part.
I recently got accepted to East Carolina University, University of Miami and San Diego state university for medical physics. Since I’m coming from Canada I’ll be paying higher fees regardless. I’d like to know when it comes to each individual program what is more reputable and has a good reputation for grad students getting residency positions?
	You may also want to look into the residency programs that may be offered at each of these places as you might have a little advantage there when applying.  Off the top of my head, ECU accepts MS students, Miami is PhD only, and I think San Diego State's accepts MS students but it is also a tuition-based program (you pay them to attend) which has its own advantages and disadvantages.
		When I talked to ECU they mentioned most of their graduate students from the MS Tracks got matched to residencies in different states. SDSU does offer residencies to MS students but it is unpaid. And UMiami I’m not too sure of, I will look into more detail.

I am looking for residencies that pay and accept MS students so any advice would be great. I don’t mind moving again since I do plan on applying to many residency positions.
			The majority of residencies pay their residents, SDSU is kinda an exception in that regard, and a decent amount of residencies accept master student's applications with a couple even having a preference for MS.

As others have stated, clinical experience will help set your application apart from others and I would add to go a step further and try to shadow the therapists and dosimetrists as well.  An understanding of the treatment process from start to finish will go a long way in interviews, and shadowing them can help you make connections that aren't overly clear from the physicist's desk.
				Every time I search up for residencies they say “Phd is preferred” so I really do hope I can find a paid residency who accepts MS students.

Do have any advice how to approach medical physicist, therapists and dosimetrists to shadow? I would like to attain clinical experience starting my first semester by shadowing since the clinical rotations won’t be till second year
					You should have no trouble finding a paid residency that accepts MS students.  From my experience (MS student who matched this year), I applied to about twenty that met those criteria and there were at least another 10 that were out of my geographical area of interest that I know I could of applied to.

As for how to connect with these people, I imagine you will most likely be introduced to the Medical Physicists who will be your professors during orientation, and probably the residents as well.  Ask then if you can shadow one or two days a week (or just for an afternoon even once a week) and ask if you can be introduced to the dosimetrist and therapist too.  I have not met anyone in this field yet who doesn't love to teach about what they do so I'm sure they would be happy to let you hang around.

Feel free to PM me if you have any more questions!
	What type of clinical experience will you be getting at each place?
		At UMiami I will be having a semester in radiation therapy clinical rotation at the Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Centre. 

At ECU they did not mention where my clinical rotation will occur but is is type of shadowing experience for a semester and participating in clinical work

At SDSU again they don’t mention where clinical rotation will be done but they offer radiation therapy lab rotation and diagnostic imaging lab rotation
			I can only speak about UMiami as I did two years of postdoc and the certificate track at their program. I am not sure whether you are doing masters or PhD track but my advice is basically the same. Look for a mentor who is at the Sylvester Cancer center or Lennar - these are the places where the action happens and you will have better opportunities to shadow. Independently of what project you pick (MRI-Linac, CBCT, Simulations, etc), approach the Med Phys residents and Physicists and ask them to let you know when they are doing QAs. Most of them will be happy to take you in and show what they are doing to you. 

  
Note if you are doing masters - try squeezing this as much as you can within your 1-3 semesters, because you will be applying for residencies before you actually have the clinical rotation (the rotations are good though, will definitely give you some experience). But AGAIN, do not wait for the clinical rotation to get some clinical experience. I am not sure whether covid has affected these opportunities, but I rarely saw students coming to the LINACs until rotation during my time working there. Make it happen for yourself. 

Coursework and professors are good (in my opinion), very easy to approach and do whatever they can to help you learning what is important for the field and to pass ABR part 1. 

One extra thing, the living cost in Miami is really high now. Mainly because of the crazy rental costs, so consider how you want to live down there - if finances are not a problem to you, disregard this comment.
				Thank you so much for the advice! My original thought is that I didn’t want to wait until 3rd or 4th semester shadowing and getting clinical experience. I’m in the masters track, I don’t think I have in me to do a full PhD track. 

I will definitely contact some medical physics residents and see if I can shadow them and be able to see what projects they are working on. Do you by chance know if the Sylvester Cancer centre or any other place they offers any summer internships to gain even more clinical experience before the clinical rotations?

How is the coursework in the program? Is it heavy? How many people are in the program usually and which track has the most students. 

I’m honestly so glad that professors are helpful and prepare for the ABR exam, I was thinking right after graduation to take the exam.
					Well, As far as I know you have to talk to the faculty to check what they have going on.  I don't really know the formality of it though as I have not had any experience with that.

I also don't know much about the full course work, as I was only required to take 6 courses. As I said before, some classes required me to study/home work than others. Nothing insane though. I was working 40 hours a week and did well on the classes. Additionally, I had a lot of classes through zoom, which made a bit hard for me to meet all the students, so I don't really know how many were in total, or on each track- sorry. The classes are going back to in person format, so you will meet more students than I did for sure.  


Good luck with your decisions =)
	I'm graduating from ECU this spring, please DM me if you have any questions or wanna chat!
	Curious, is there any particular reason you do not plan on going to a program in Canada?
		The admission is too competitive if a course is missing or extenuating circumstances that has impacted your GPA, at least in my personal experience.

Also they are limited options when it comes to residencies in Canada. US has more residencies and placements, I also want to have more options and opportunities to network.
For those who have completed (or are currently completing) residencies, where did you complete your residency, and on average, how many hours a week did you work? What challenges did you face?
	I haven't started residency yet, but while interviewing I would always ask "how many hours per week do you work on average?" to residents. The answers were mostly always 40-50hours. There was only like 2 programs where residents said that, sometimes on a tough week full of annuals and when others were on leave they would do 60+hours. 

In the end is really depends, you have to be sure to factor that in when applying, and always ask the personnel on the program what's the day to day of the resident there.
