Post Title: [Training Tuesday] - Weekly thread for questions about grad school, residency, and general career topics 05/24/2022
Post Content: This is the place to ask questions about graduate school, training programs, or general basic career topics. If you are just learning about the field and want to know if it is something you should explore, this thread is probably the correct place for those first few questions on your mind.

Examples: 

* "I majored in Surf Science and Technology in undergrad, is Medical Physics right for me?"
* "I can't decide between Biomedical Engineering and Medical Physics..."
* "Do Medical Physicists get free CT scans for life?"
* "Masters vs. PhD"
* "How do I prepare for Residency interviews?"
Comments: 
New to the subreddit. Which is tougher to land a residency between imaging and therapy?
	I applied for both, just not at the same institutions. I had good knowledge in both and did research in both. I would suggest asking more about which career is the best fit for you because I totally changed my mind after interviewing.
	There’s a whole lot more therapy residencies than there are imaging residencies. Also, most of the imaging residencies that I’ve seen on MPRAP prefer PhDs. I think most MPs are interested in therapy physics so those positions are inherently more competitive than therapy positions. It would be cool to see the match stats broken down by subfield.
		Just to confirm, you mean “more competitive than imaging”, correct?
			Yes sorry, I had one too many margaritas :)
I really like research and I’m thinking about pursuing a PhD. Should I do a PhD before residency, or right after? I’m starting my last year in an MS soon. I’m also thinking about an academic career too. Thank you
	I personally think it would be easier to do the PhD before residency.

From my personal experience, I worked as a high school teacher for a year before applying for PhD programs. Even though I don't get paid a ton as a high school teacher in an expensive city, getting paid less than a third of what I do now (in an equally expensive city) is not something I'm looking forward to. There are some luxuries I've gotten used to such as being able to live far away from work because I can afford gas, being able to get a new phone for more than free, eating more than rice and egg for every meal, and being able to eat out when I'm busy. These will be hard to step away from come Fall. If you aren't coming from the same impoverished background as me, you might have certain support systems that can improve your quality of life. If you are like me, being paid enough to not have roommates for a year can make it harder to go back.

This is all based on my personal experiences, but you might relate. PhD students aren't usually given enough to have an acceptable quality of life, especially in expensive areas, so if you feel like you could make it through at this point in your life, I would suggest to do it now. On the other hand, you could do a residency and work for a while in order to save enough money to improve your quality of life during your PhD. The problem with that plan is that the longer you take away from school, the harder it will be to go back.
		Thank you for your reply. This was exactly my concern as well, so I’m leaning towards doing the PhD first
If after graduating with a masters in an accredited program, are there paths to take to then obtain a PhD in the field?
	Of course, you can do it.
	1. Finish Master's
2. Find PhD program doing research you're interested in
3. Apply and get accepted
4. ???
5. Profit!
