Post Title: (UK)Advise for getting onto the STP
Post Content: I’m a 2nd year BSc physics student in the uk looking to do the STP once I’ve finished my degree (probably nuclear medicine or radiotherapy). I did a weeks work experience in a radiation physics department while at school but can’t seem to find any placements, especially in the nhs, advertised. Any ideas where to look? 

If I don’t get onto it first time would I be better to do a masters or try get a job as a clinical technologist? 

What are the best ways to improve my application?
Comments: 
Where are you in the UK? 

Best to visit a department and get an impression of the role and what interests you. Then you can direct your application from there.

The issue with post grad studies is that you will do a med phys MSc during the STP, so doing a specific medical physics masters is a bit pointless, yet it will be a significant advantage compared to a like for like candidate without one.

Plenty of people do the STP without post grad experience though yeah.
	Uni in Nottingham, live in West Yorkshire
		Leeds has a large Radiotherapy centre which I'm sure would be happy to have you visit. They are one of the leading brachytherapy centres in the country (based on their content at  conferences), so a good place to visit for that alone.
		Radiotherapy Department in Queens Nottingham
Work experience is helpful, but not essential. I managed to get in via training as a dosimetrist via the PTP but those places aren’t quite as ubiquitous any more. An additional Masters may be helpful - I came in with an MSci - but, remember, the STP comes with a MSc so it’s again not essential.

It’s not uncommon to apply multiple times - what you do with the intervening years is up to you but you’re on the right track as an MSc or PTP role would show commitment and get your eye in for the technical questions.

If you wanted to find a placement it would be best to go to departments actively - very few have active outreach programmes, which I think is a real failing of the field, but (speaking locally) there may be the ability to finance a driven graduate who may be able to tackle a particular topic.
	Hey since you seem to know a lot about this, do you think having an MSc in (medical) physics materially increases the chances of getting onto the STP? I don’t think my 2:1 BSc in physics and unrelated MSc would be good enough given the competition. I was thinking of doing an MSc via distance learning and trying to get some hospital experience during that time.
		I know people who got in with just a BSc, and who got in with a PhD. It’s much more about the right candidate — work experience and familiarity with a clinical environment is a boon there, but it’s not as if you can’t apply and then explore other options if you should be unsuccessful.
