Post Title: [Training Tuesday] - Weekly thread for questions about grad school, residency, and general career topics 10/04/2022
Post Content: This is the place to ask questions about graduate school, training programs, or general basic career topics. If you are just learning about the field and want to know if it is something you should explore, this thread is probably the correct place for those first few questions on your mind.

Examples: 

* "I majored in Surf Science and Technology in undergrad, is Medical Physics right for me?"
* "I can't decide between Biomedical Engineering and Medical Physics..."
* "Do Medical Physicists get free CT scans for life?"
* "Masters vs. PhD"
* "How do I prepare for Residency interviews?"
Comments: 
i am about to join residency this year in November. I want to know about the growth opportunities. how do i grow as a physicist! most of the head of med physics dept have a Phd! .If you were to start today what would be your strategy to grow?
	There are a few main career pathways: research, education and administration / leadership. The respective ways to grow are grants and publications, developing or expanding a program and taking on large clinical projects and leading AAPM groups. While not all are necessary, many high profile professionals in our field will have some combination of all three of those areas.
Therapy resident graduating June 2023 here-- Wanted to see what the timeline on jobs is looking like for any other graduating residents out there (and any salary info you'd be willing to share on offers you've gotten). I know the timeline has moved up for the most part but wondering when most of this resident class is going to be getting offers. Thanks!!
	The senior resident at my location has had a couple of interviews and site visits, but no offers yet.  They got these interviews through personal connections, and, as far as I know, they weren't planning on aggressively searching for a position until early next year.
	The second year residents at my place are still just looking around for job openings and revising their CVs
	I’m focusing mostly on the west coast (solving the two body problem with my fiancée) and have applied to a couple academic places this past month. Haven’t heard back yet. Generally the salary I’ve seen is ~150k for an assistant professor role but your mileage may vary. There are good jobs out there, but there’s no telling sometimes how long the posting will stay up — my advice to colleagues in the same position as me is to apply sooner rather than later, especially if you’re looking for a specific location.
	Same boat.  I am probably not planning on starting to aggressively look until January or February at the earliest, and really start trying to nail things down around and immediately after the Spring Clinical.  But I am also planning to take a month or two off for boards and downtime after my last rotation, and hoping to find a place to start work in the early/mid fall, so my timeline may be different than yours/others.
	I am looking for an specific location. I put up some resumes in AAPM and I have been applying to jobs. People want physicists now but I have gotten calls of departments who were interested. Even though I still have 9 months more, they call back to explain everything and to tell me to keep them in mind. 

Sometimes departments have planned open positions. It does not hurt to apply

Edit: MS degree. What would be the starting salary with residency plus 3 years of experience? We all know that the salary survey is already old.
[deleted]
	What is your goal? I view the point of residency to be to get ABR certified to be a clinical physicist, so if you're looking for programs that won't allow you to get ABR certified, I'm not sure I understand the point. That being said, I think there is a list somewhere (I can't find it, but maybe someone else knows where it is) of residencies currently applying to be CAMPEP accredited. If you aren't looking to be a clinical medical physicist, there are biomedical engineering programs that offer a lot of imaging coursework, in case you just want to be medical physics adjacent.
		[deleted]
			I think the Harvard/MGH program combines a certificate into the residency which contains a research year (ie postdoc work).
