Post Title: Canadian Medical Physicists practicing in US, how is your experience? What are the challenges? Is H1B is a better option then TN visa (other then being able to apply for Green card with H1B) ?
Post Content: 
Comments: 
First: if you've seen the salary numbers, you already know that the pay is considerably better. So, if you land a job somewhere with low cost of living, you'll be raking it in, and you can live pretty well. Yet, even if you end up somewhere with higher cost of living, I reckon the higher pay relative to Canadian salaries means that the higher cost of living washes out the higher pay, and you're probably still on par with Canadian physicists at your point in career.

E.g., I live and work in Hawaii, and I am getting paid less than what many places are currently offering to candidates fresh out of residency. (They talk often about "paradise tax" being the reason that they pay lower salaries out here.) BUT, at the same time, I am getting paid more than the 3rd quartile for CMPs with 35+ years experience in Canada, and I graduated residency in 2019.

I can't speak to whether or not TN visa gets messy when you try for green card. I'm on an H1B, and I have started working on my green card application. Regardless, sage2g2 is right, employers will probably love for you get a TN, because it saves them a lot of work. If it were me, I would push for them to handle the H1B, and then after a year of that, I would start seeking a green card. "Visa might expire soon" anxiety is not fun, and neither is "I am betrothed to this employer and this employer only" anxiety.

(EDIT: I guess I should also mention that the healthcare system down here is obviously not ideal, and also, shooting/crime anxiety is a thing to consider. Whenever I have "what if I moved back to Canada?" daydreams, those two things definitely stand out. As in, if I moved back to Canada, I wouldn't have to worry as much about medical emergencies or random shootings.)
	P.S., one of our competitors on O'ahu is hiring a chief physicist if anyone is interested. Just FYI. See the AAPM job board.
	Thanks for sharing your thoughts.
Most academic centers have massive offices and h1b is not an issue for them, h1b is a safer bet in terms of immigration and “dual intent”, meaning once you apply for a green card under a TN you might as well stay in the US until you get the GC since the border agents have grounds to deny your entry. 
Another option to look into is the national interest waiver for a green card, the route I took and took 1.5 from start to end. It’s a self petition and if you have a few publications and say you will work in cancer therapy etc is almost a shoe in with a good lawyer. Costs about $3500. PM me if you want a referral to inquire, consults are usually free. 
In terms of salary there is no competition to Canada. I live in a gated golf course community 15 minutes from work with not a lot of traffic and the price of the house was 2.5x my salary. Most places I looked in Canada it was about 6-7x for a condo. I have lots of discretionary spending to travel where I want and the professional allowances are way more generous too.
	Thanks for the response, just sent you a PM.
I heard that many places prefer you to apply the TN1 which is simply for them
In order to be elligible for an H1B without having to go through the lottery means working for a non-profit or a university. That means an academic job.

One of the challenges is that most Canadian institutions - except Princess Margaret and McGill - have poor recognition in the US, and breaking into the academic scene is more challenging. But it’s very doable.

Otherwise, the others have explained why H1b is better than TN.
u/ThePhysicistIsIn may have some insight
