Post Title: UK physicist migrating to —> AUS/NZ
Post Content: Sorry I posted this in training Tuesday because I did not want to inundate this sub with a non-workplace based question. Didn’t get a response so I am trying here. 

I work in the UK as a registered Physicist, me and my spouse are thinking of moving to work in Australia or NZ due to better salary and lifestyle prospects. UK Physicist salaries are too low for our plans to have another kid and various other life goals - NHS wages are stagnated to no end and do not reflect the workload, but that’s my opinion which I’m sure my fellows would contest. 

The issue is I hold a dual citizenship already. I can not say where it’s too specific to identify me since there is not many of us. I admit I do not understand the immigration laws well. Would this be a problem obtaining a visa to work in AUS or NZ?

Would doing a clinical doctorate there (or even in the states with CAMPEP) help my immigration prospects to achieve this too?

Thank you in advance.
Comments: 
I'm in NZ and I'd say close to a third of our centre is from the UK. They are very experienced at sorting visas out, you wouldn't need any extra qualifications.
	Thank you for your reply, this is very reassuring for job security 🙂
Speaking as a physicist in US: if you are experienced you may find a job at an academic/university hospital. New people are now required to do residency for ABR but a lot of senior physicists without residency ABR are still active. If you are stronger in research that’s even better
	Thank you for your reply, this is helpful information 🙂 I admit here we don’t generally call Physicists as seniors, they tend to move up to managerial roles and do less Physics. How many years would classify as senior in your view?
		It depends - ABR rule of board certification starts at 2013, so if you start a physicist job in early 2010s you are not limited by this rule. Our physicist group has a few physicists with 15+ experience without ABR, they entered the field early and some of have ABMP
