Post Title: Professional question
Post Content: Hi ya’ll
So I wanted to ask for some advice on a problem that surely must not be unique.  There is a small clinic and they have a single physicist. The physicist noticed that the therapists were not communicating issues regarding the machine.  If the therapists had a problem they decided to cut out what they saw as the middle man and go straight to service.  On one particularly occasion they called service about a beam tuning error and the service folks remoted in and tuned the beam and told the therapists all was good.  When the physicist found out he/she was a bit upset by this because they had been trained that it was their responsibility to accept the machine back into service and that they should have consulted physics and probably run a daily check on the beam.  The physicist camels and politely told the therapists that this was bad and that they should communicate these issues next time.  The department manager, who was also a therapist, called the physicist to his office and told them not to cause trouble.  So now the physicists feels they are in a department where no one values their opinion and their expertise is not required.

Surely others have dealt with someone similar.  Can anyone offer any advice on how to correct this and help repair the toxic environment?
Comments: 
What exactly do you mean by 'tune the beam'?  We have Varian equipment at my site, and the field service engineer knows that physics should check certain things before the machine is released to the customer.  Varian has a rubric for their C series machines.  They probably have a similar one for the Truebeam or other digital machine.

One issue that could be described as tuning that would be minor is if they are getting under dose rate faults at the beginning of beaming on.  This is a minor issue that only requires the customer to verify that the beam runs before treating again.

Something major would be steering the beam to correct flatness.  Of course that requires one on one work with the physicist.

Your friend may want to request info from the linac manufacturer indicating what should be checked after each type of machine service and provide that information to the department manager and therapists.
	>What exactly do you mean by 'tune the beam'?  We have Varian equipment at my site, and the field service engineer knows that physics should check certain things before the machine is released to the customer.  Varian has a rubric for their C series machines.  They probably have a similar one for the Truebeam or other digital machine.

These are important questions. If you're playing telephone with the therapists about what the errors were and what was done to correct them, you're definitely not getting complete information and shouldn't let that flavor your entire outlook on the clinic. I would definitely have chased that up before talking to the therapists about it at all.  


The fact that they did it remotely definitely limits what they could have been doing.
	The error the therapists called service about was a ‘hump error’ which makes me think this isn’t Varian. It does sound like serious even if it isn’t. My feeling is that if there is any doubt, even if service says everything is fine, it’s better to check and at my clinic I’d never have to explain myself if I wanted it checked out.   However, in this case service told the therapists that everything ‘should be fine’. That’s no guarantee and it’s not their neck on the line, legally. The point I think is that there will be times when service says everything she boils be ok but we think it’s better to check.  For most clinics, based on people’s comments, we wouldn’t have an issue saying we want to be safe and check. Sadly that doesn’t seem to be universal.
I'm surprised the engineer was willing to tune the beam without physics signing off on it.  But honestly, with the department manager not having my back as a physicist, I would not be happy at all.  I would perhaps want to have a meeting to go over job responsibilities in detail and reiterate what the physicist's role and authority actually is in the department.  Responsibility must come with equivalent authority or we are all wasting our time.
There is definitely a little more happening here- tuning the beam shouldnt happen with out physics there because you are changing the fundamental properties of the beam. But we all know that.

The issue here is a failure to communicate that information properly. To address the situation at hand I would perform checks to make sure the machine is in speck and then send an email to service to let them know where the boundaries are for performing service without physics involvement. CC the manager, who is probably not who the physicist reports to, and make sure that the physics manager also knows what is going on.

being told to lay off is something I couldn't ethically adhere to. The machine's beam is my responsibility, no one should be messing with it without my knowledge. It's my butt on the line.

With that said, if it looks like the situation can't get better, I would have to vacate the position just due to liability and overall unappreciation.
	I was thinking the same thing.  This place may be too broken to fix. With support from some key players like a physics chief and the MDs its possible this could get sorted out but not without help.  And it may be they know the job market is such that if the physicists leaves its going to be a heck on a job to replace them. Im not 100% sure this true of all parts of the country but hiring physicists is super hard where I am and its not likely to get better any time soon.
	To be frank, “beam tuning” is an all encompassing term (used by engineers) for a lot of non-tuning servicing. The companies usually have strict procedures about when and how to notify physics if there is a service that requires additional QA. We really aren’t sure what type of servicing took place in this scenario.

That said, i wouldnt be happy with the run around physics.
		Yeah things get sketchy with in-house service though sometimes. if it was external I think it would go the way you're saying
Dang, should have gotten that manager's response in writing.
	Dear Manager,

Can you please remind me of our conversation we had about my responsibility with the machine? I seem to have forgot. 

Sincerely,

Physicist who totally won’t save this email when the lawsuits start coming in.
		Love it!
I don't know sounds like less work to me /s

But really though this happens when physics isn't readily available. If that's the case show that you are, whether it's true or not. 

If that's not it, there's no need to confront. If you have service you have a uptime guarantee. This should be recorded in a log book that contains your signature. When the machine is down they'll need to communicate to get that signed. If they don't get that signature or don't use the log, than that's what you use to show that the therapists aren't doing their job.
	Thats a good point. When I was a physicist for a small community clinic I was only on site once a week.  Those therapists relied on service because I wasn’t going to be able to get there quickly enough to be of use except when it was a big issue.  But I was also very clear with service where the boundaries were and, at least with Varian service, they didn’t tweaked the beam without me knowing.  Sometimes there are grey areas where we aren’t sure if it requires a beam check but in those cases I think we just go on the side of caution and ask run a morning QA beam checker, or have the therapists do it.
	100%.  Im surprised too.  And yeah, this isn’t going to get better if the manager isn’t told that physics WILL do their thing regardless of his opinions.  He might be able to try to get the physicists fire for subordination, if that is even true that the physicists is truly subordinate the manager.  I have a suspicion it wouldn’t get to that point but who knows. I’d hope a real leader in the department, say the medical director, could step in protect the physicist, especially subject this is also a patient safety issue.
		I've never worked at a small clinic but this is NOT normal. Physicists do NOT work for the physicians, therapists, "managers", etc. You report only to Chief physicist, directors, vice-president, CEO, etc. If something goes wrong the manager will claim ignorance and you'd potentially be on the hook.
This physicist should immediately confirm beam tuning for themselves upon hearing there have been unsupervised changes. Then in writing express their concerns to the correct parties, including the RSO/ licensee. If an event were to happen, even if unrelated to this particular issue, there will be audits and checks on this kind of unsupervised adjustment. The physicist has a responsibility to advocate for the patient by signing off that they know the beam is to their standard.

At the end of it all, a serious change of protocol should be implemented. Having the parties who are responsible to the state would help.
Go to the policy and procedures. If they don’t exist start drafting them with the hospital admin.
	Came to say the same thing. Policies and procedures are the key.
If it’s an elekta machine the engineer can do quite a lot remotely. They have complete access to service mode but just can’t beam on.
As an engineer for all mfr's of Linacs, if I remote in and do any "beam tuning", I ALWAYS have physics on the phone explaining what I'm doing and what it will affect. 

When I'm done, I stress the importance of running a simple morning checkout and beam check but obviously, I can't force it to be performed but it's recommended.
In the UK at least, this could be a violation of legislation which requires adequate performance testing following equipment maintenance, and the direct involvement of medical physics experts in therapeutic exposures. I'd be livid if this happened in my clinics, and if I was told to stay out by management, I would report it to the care quality commission (government watchdog). Are there not similar laws to protect patients in the US?
A very big part of quality assurance is not QA measurements or anything like that. It is workflow strenght, which includes communication and letting people do their work. To me it sounds like the manager (therapist) is more worried about treating as many patients as possible, and therapists, are more worried about going home early.  The engineer should have called the physicist as well. You are not asking for much, even if you are busy, you know what is being done and that you will have to verify at the end of repair.

I used to work at a site in which the therapists would just call service without even telling me. This was part of a toxic workplace culture. Anyways, the engineer would always reach out to me and that is how I found out problems. Engineer did not call and that is something she could ask for.

Besides always getting everything on email for the record, this manager is probably under the owner of the practice. It would be good for that physicist to get some stuff together from scope of practice in radiation oncology for physicist (ACR, I think), highlight what is being discussed, explain WHAT COULD GO WRONG IF THEY EXCLUDE THE PHYSICIST,  and go through those with both of them and therapist lead and then communicate the change in communication and reasons to the therapists. You are just asking for ONE call. At least then you are establishing your duties,  avoiding a lawsuit or at least excluding yourself from one. It is not up to ONE person to fix a whole toxic environment. I have tried and failed miserably. If manager and practice owner or therapist lead do not take this seriously, it is a big red flag.

At one clinic I used to work at, the therapists decided to stop using chin straps and modify immobilization devices. Physicist realized when they looked at the patient through the camera and didn't see chin strap and they were being treated for nodes going very high. They were very very mad when management sent them a copy of the ACR guidelines of scope of practice and they had to sign that they have read it.

&#x200B;

Best wishes
