Post Title: [Training Tuesday] - Weekly thread for questions about grad school, residency, and general career topics 08/30/2022
Post Content: This is the place to ask questions about graduate school, training programs, or general basic career topics. If you are just learning about the field and want to know if it is something you should explore, this thread is probably the correct place for those first few questions on your mind.

Examples: 

* "I majored in Surf Science and Technology in undergrad, is Medical Physics right for me?"
* "I can't decide between Biomedical Engineering and Medical Physics..."
* "Do Medical Physicists get free CT scans for life?"
* "Masters vs. PhD"
* "How do I prepare for Residency interviews?"
Comments: 
When it comes to residency, does someone have an edge if one knows how to fix a CT/MRI? I am a FSE but not fixing imaging equipment. I was wondering whether it’ll be helpful to be a FSE for imaging equipment before I finish my master
	Basically every imaging physicist will know what the internal components of both CT and MR scanners are. Basically no imaging physicist will know how to fix imaging equipment (other than saying "the tube needs replaced, let's call service"). FSEs perform all equipment fixes.
		Thank you Gotterdam.
What do you think are some important competencies/skills/knowledge when you are recruiting residents?
			I am in imaging/nuclear medicine. When I was at an institution with a residency program we looked at some of the following:

Academic - quality of grad program, GPA, publications, presentations, research applicability to imaging

Service - volunteer efforts, medical physics community involvement, teaching experience 

Clinical experience with diagnostic and nuclear medicine imaging equipment

How well the applicant "fit in" with the department. For example, an applicant that wants to do a lot of research would not be a good fit in a purely clinical residency
I'm applying to grad school this year and I'm afraid I won't have enough to show for my research experience. I'm currently working full time as a research tech doing medical physics work, but I have no publications or any papers to show for my undergraduate research work either. Am I overthinking this or should I wait an extra year? Also, any tips for writing a personal statement would be welcome.
	Don't be afraid to apply! It'll keep your letters of recommendation fresh (even if you have to ask them again next year), and not very many people have publications coming out of undergrad. Granted, that'd help you a lot, but as long as you can describe your research thoroughly and accurately on a technical level, that should be sufficient. If you happen to get in somewhere, but decide that you'd prefer a different school, you can always wait and apply again after you have publications to boost your chances. If application fees are too much, most schools will give a waiver. Just ask and apply early to make sure you meet deadlines.
	Depends on if you want to apply to PhD or MS programs. I had no publications, but had a couples of semesters of research experience.  I was accepted into a few good programs. For a PhD, a publication would obviously give you a leg up.

In my opinion, unless money is a huge concern, apply anyway. Let the programs tell you if you're accepted or not, don't decide that for yourself based on hypotheticals in your mind. It would also show interest for a subsequent application cycle, and some could even give you feedback for you to improve.
		If money is a concern, don't be afraid to email admissions and ask for an application fee waiver. Most give you them without even asking why.

&#x200B;

Edit: this includes ones that ask for FAFSA or other info. If you wouldn't qualify based on your FAFSA or income information, but are still in a financial pickle, you can explain your situation to the admissions department and most of the time, they will get you a waiver.
How to prioritize job applications?

I am thinking of a weighted cost function involving political party partisanship, state income tax, climate, and family proximity.

Edit: and political nonsense -- I've seen at least one university position whose *job description* was a pledge to oppose racism, literally the entire description, no mention of the medical physicist's actual work. Of course we might chalk that up to an incompetent HR agent, but it raises the question of what an employee would be forced to do as a function of the Party's popularity rather than science or patient's best interest.
	IMO first and foremost, if possible, I’d weigh the things that will support your quality of life - things like family and preferred location as you mention. But this also includes perceived work culture! A happy, fulfilled physicist in the clinic will be happier in the home. 

Things like state taxes will matter less because the state will find a way to take the money regardless (eg: Texas and Washington both, while having no state income tax, have regressive property taxes). 🤷‍♀️ Just make sure you’re compensated fairly to justify cost of living.
		Taxes also carry a moral dimension: If the state is using the funds for evil purposes (and some states do), we must try to minimize the funds we give them -- this weights against some states in favor of others (proportionate with the percentage of income tax).
	You might be over thinking it.  Where do you want to live? That's the big question.
		That's described by the criteria I mentioned. You speak as if sufficiently-detailed information is conveyed by a mere city, state, or regional name.
			By the time you've graduated residency, if you've lived in the US for your whole life, yes city/state/region is a perfectly fine starting point. The US south/midwest/new england/pacific northwest/etc/etc/etc all have a pretty unique identity that I find hard to believe you don't have a passing knowledge of. Most stereotypes about the different regions are at least superficially accurate.

The biggest thing, for me, was "fit" and "culture" which just aren't things you can actually assess before working there. After that, rough geographic area. We wanted seasonal weather. I'll refrain from saying too much "political", but recent events in the US also shaped our decision since there are women in my life I value. Given the small footprint of our field, after these, there weren't exactly a whole lot of areas left. Besides, you can always leave and go somewhere else. I went to a job I thought I'd like and didn't. We moved after I got a better opportunity.
				Whatever stereotypes you have in mind -- I don't know them -- are such broad strokes that it bewilders me (given the sizes of the populations and geographic areas you are equating), and concerns me that you would make decisions based on them.
					Then yeah I've got nothing for you. I struggle to comprehend an adult in the US who doesn't know the rough geographic regions. Deep south is very conservative but has a low COL. Pacific northwest is pretty liberal but high COL. To say you are overthinking this is an understatement. It **concerns me** that you'd use a cost function to figure out where you want to live. The difference between the florida pandhandle and seattle are so vast that I have trouble believe you don't know the difference
	This [site](https://www.movemap.io/explore/us?fbclid=IwAR32RxjCCw4y6YKQ0N2OjtJMh4xPQblLiH3mypB906Et61WCDDIaaininYI) might help as it breaks the US down by counties for several of the parameters you mentioned.  I do not know how they got their data though, so keep in mind the accuracy may be questionable, but it might help you narrow your list.
		Thanks. Neat site, but I agree the accuracy is questionable (particularly regarding the weather filter). I also didn't see sources cited ...
I'm starting a MSc Medical Physics in Scotland this September and I'm wondering if I'd still be eligible for SPT afterwards without redoing the masters component of the training programme?
	SPT?

Generally speaking, American institutions can request an independent audit of international degrees if they wish to more rigorously determine equivalency, to be paid for by the applicant (roughly 300 USD ~4 years ago) ...
		STP is a UK thing for medical physicist's training.
