Post Title: medical physics Ontario student co-op advice
Post Content: Hi. Im doing my undergrad in medical physics at an Ontario University and I am supposed to have a co-op placement by January but I have failed to find one. If anyone has done a co-op placement before please give me advice. No one in my program has one yet and our supervisors have failed to help us with the Physics field.
Comments: 
I was a physics coop student way back when. I couldn’t find a position in physics so I ended up doing software QA for 3 work terms in a row. ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
I did my undergrad at an Ontario University with a recent (at the time) Medical Physics offering within the physics department. Most students did co-ops in research labs doing imaging research but I know of one who did his co-op at the local cancer centre. I moved to another University in Ontario for graduate school and I'm fairly certain that local cancer centre hires co-op students as well. 

I'm unfamiliar with the specifics of co-ops to be honest but is your contact at the university someone with the co-op program or in your department? I would guess the co-op program has less experience with this niche field but if you have a medical physics program there must be some with a contact to the local medical physicists who you could talk to for advice.

If not, there's always opportunities in academic placements in labs working in imaging or oncology related projects which are worth exploring as well. I know the Institute for Diagnostic Imaging Research and Robarts Research Institute hire co-op students and both have related projects. You could also reach out to XRCT and see if they hire co-op students.
	thank you!! will reach out to them.
I did a co-op undergrad in a medical physics related field. My coop jobs were at Health Canada, the cancer centre in Kitchener, and the Odette Cancer Centre in Toronto. Ontario has the Harold E Johns studentship that is targeted towards undergraduates interested in the field. For that program you apply directly to the centre you are interested in. I also know a couple of people who were interested in health physics that ended up doing coops at DRDC or OPG, I think those would also work for you. There have also been students that get an Nserc and do a research project with a prof for a few months so you could ask around with different profs.
