Post Title: [Training Tuesday] - Weekly thread for questions about grad school, residency, and general career topics 01/03/2023
Post Content: This is the place to ask questions about graduate school, training programs, or general basic career topics. If you are just learning about the field and want to know if it is something you should explore, this thread is probably the correct place for those first few questions on your mind.

Examples: 

* "I majored in Surf Science and Technology in undergrad, is Medical Physics right for me?"
* "I can't decide between Biomedical Engineering and Medical Physics..."
* "Do Medical Physicists get free CT scans for life?"
* "Masters vs. PhD"
* "How do I prepare for Residency interviews?"
Comments: 
Just a reminder to residency applicants, here is a link to the interview/program info spreadsheet:
 https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/u/0/d/1hnH_EhopdAqZ0DTg9eyX66E4_g5uCCsH5uwIxmKfZ0k/htmlview#gid=1533941002
	In the poll spreadsheet, it doesn't specify the institute when displaying the info. I'm particularly interested in the Visa status for each. Is there anywhere to access the Visa status for each institute?
		Try this one: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ttLya-7aikuj2GZX4q3Gc_NrX5qOdUja/edit#gid=512454116

Disclaimer, I have no idea about the level of accuracy of the information. If you are concerned about a particular program, email them directly.
Originally posted this in the radiology subreddit, but was advised to ask here.

I have a background in EE with a masters projected related to MRI acquisition/compression for K-space data (SENSE MRI).
But I ended up going into a cloud software engineering career and have around 8 years of experience. 

Lately I’ve been thinking of a career in the medical field as I have a passion for medical imaging as well as medicine in general. I understand I have the option to work for a medical devices manufacturer like Seimens or Philips but I want to be closer to medicine and patients rather than manufacturing. 

As I’m in my mid 30s the MD track seems too much of a challenge and not sure if I’d be able to put in the years into it. So I was advised the Medical physicist track.

Would love to get some information on what education I would need to pursue and if there’s a fast track give my background (BS + MS in EE with Math minor and 8 YOE). Can this be done while working/remote and then maybe full time for the residency component. 

Secondly, how does this line of work pay, starting out as well as maybe with a 2-3years into it? (My current pay is around $280k)

third question, what are some of the duties for a medical physicist? And if there are any other jobs that you think would be a better fit if not this?
	It can take as long to be a medical physicist with an interesting career as it takes to be a primary care MD. You’re also getting paid more now at 280k than >80% of medical physicists, especially imaging physicists which are paid a little less. 

Imaging physicists also have 0% patient contact as far as I know. Therapy physicists have less than 2%. I think you’re barking up the wrong tree. 

Assuming you want to become a clinical physicist still, you’re going to need to go through boarding and a residency program (3 years) in addition to a minimum 2 year degree (but this will by and large pin you in tight to a very clinical and non-research role, so 4-6 years for an accredited medphys phd and perhaps longer if doing it remote). If the time to become an MD is deterring you, I doubt you’ll find physics much better. And at a pay cut.
	For the most part, I would echo what ilovematchanxiety said, but I will add a bit more. As a therapy physicist (resident) it's true most of my patient contact is walking by them in the hallway, but I still do things like check their charts and our patients are at the forefront of our minds in everything we do. I imagine this is different than working in industry where the patient is more abstract. I'm not sure about imaging physicists though since I don't think they do stuff like check charts, place OSLDs, do special physics consults, etc. that put us therapy physicists adjacent to the patients. Maybe you would consider therapy instead of imaging if that sounds more like what you want to do? I could get more into the duties but I anticipate this will be a long comment.

As for your other questions: no, I don't think you would be able to work while doing your master's as it's mostly a full time gig. The most demanding job I've personally seen students take on is something like being a waiter part time, not a career job. I imagine there are some people who pull off something more rigorous, but it's probably pretty rare and not the best idea. Getting a residency is difficult and you want to put your all into being a good candidate for one.

Unfortunately, there is not a fast track given your experience. There is a fast track for those with a PhD in a related field (1 year certificate vs 2 years masters) but not for someone with a masters in a related field.

If pay is really important to you, this is going to be very tough. You get paid if you go the PhD route, although it doesn't sound like that's your move, but only around $30k a year. While a resident you make around $50-60k and then before boards in the low to mid-100s and after boards in the upper 100s to maybe low 200s. So to hit the low $200s you're looking at a minimum of 5 years.  This is all for therapy btw and imaging physicists make a little less and there's a lot of variation with location and type of hospital you're at. It is possible you won't hit $280k ever again.

Medical physics is an amazing career and I know lots of people who found it in their 30's and went back to school for it. These people tended to have careers where they weren't making nearly as much as you and/or were burned out and found a passion in medical physics so the temporary dip in money did not matter to them. I think you should look into schools you're interested in attending to see if the coursework and research is something that interests you. You could also weigh therapy vs. imaging if you're considering either.
		So basically from what it sounds like, it maybe worth it to just pursue the MD route since it will take just as long, but then I could potentially go to the radiology route. 

Keeping everything aside, strictly from a financial standpoint, would the MD route be a better bet to recover from the debt/loss of income for 4-5years during medschool? 
Of course I know the Medical physicist salaries mentioned aren’t terrible by any means, but given where I currently am, I have bills and mortgage that is at that scale. So I have to think of the family if they will be okay with a change in lifestyle.
			You’d also want to consider your work-life balance.  There was a fairly recent study that came out showing physicists were the only people in the department who had higher workloads than physicians. For many, the hours are pretty rough (often late evenings).  Imaging may be better, but the salaries are lower. 


Great jobs exist, but you’ll probably have to work for a while and move to find one.
				"There was a fairly recent study that came out showing physicists were the only people in the department who had higher workloads than physicians. For many, the hours are pretty rough (often late evenings). Imaging may be better, but the salaries are lower."

I'm early in my imaging physics career (in-house) and I cannot imagine coming close to a physicians workload. As for the "lower" salary; of course mine is lower than my therapy counterparts at the same experience level... but the salary itself is still pretty great and I'll take 15-20 k less in salary if it means I'm happy, love my job, rarely work late nights, and get to spend time with family....

My point, imaging work/life balance does not look the same as therapy work/life balance...
					Yep, I actually moved out of therapy because the W/L balance was so bad. 

OP seems pretty concerned about salary and patient contact, though, so he’d probably want to go into radiation therapy.
			The MD route will take a lot longer than doing a masters in medical physics (2 years school+2 year residency vs 4 years school + 1 intern year + 4 year residency + possible 1 year fellowship). If you did a PhD the amount of time could be similar depending on how long your PhD takes and if you do a residency with a research year. In the long run, MD’s make a lot more since their salaries are a lot higher but we do better in the short term because our school doesn’t cost as much and we are at the residency salary for a shorter period of time.
				Oh also based on your background you will probably need some pre-reqs for medical school first. O chem, biology, anatomy, etc. Plus you will have to take the MCAT. Some medical physics programs still require the GRE but there are many that don’t. You also only need the equivalent of a physics minor for med phys which you can probably easily convince a school you have with your education and a few syllabi.
				Question, while these are not required for admission in most programs, are classes such as biology, chemistry, biochemistry, and anatomy/physiology helpful for Medical Physicists?
					Beyond the basics that are required for you to get a science or engineering bachelor's degree, not really, unless you want to do specialized research during a PhD. Anatomy is a requirement for CAMPEP but it's fine to wait until grad school to take it, I think most people do.
						I think several grad programs require 1 semester of A&P, computer programming, bio or chem etc for admission. It'd be best to check specific program requirements.
					It’s been a while, but I went to a top medphys program and never took a biology, biochemistry or A/P class.  

A/P would have made grad level A/P easier, but the other classes would have provided little benefit.  Physics and Conp Sci and a little math were really all that’s necesssy.
					Organic Chem is helpful if you want to go into nuclear medicine or theranostics. You really don’t have to worry about A&P as you’ll take an anatomy class in the grad program for med phys. One thing that is extremely helpful is computer science: if you can only fit one extra class, do coding. I did my undergrad in physics with a pre-med concentration and a math minor and felt very prepared for my grad program. 
My biggest advice around this is to reach out to the program first before making assumptions. The requirements for admission regarding courses can be flexible sometimes.
[deleted]
	A couple friends I know who’ve been in the hunt recently have seen offers closer to 200k than I would have thought. The AAPM survey is out of date and doesn’t account for massive inflation increases and increasingly dire manpower shortages in physics. 
 
Go get that bread if you’re new or looking to switch.
	If you're an AAPM member, grab the latest professional survey.
	[deleted]
		They ought to get a pay bump once they get fully boarded though right?
