Post Title: Advice from Medical Physics PhD's much appreciated!
Post Content: Greetings!


I am finishing a Master's program here in Romania next year, in Medical Physics, and am looking forward to pursuing a PhD - preferably in Radiobiology or Radiation Therapy. I'm grateful for the experience here but consider studying abroad for this part after Master's.

Along with the typical difficulties that I am trying to learn about (admission, exams, mental state during the doctoral years), I also wish to figure out what option I can choose to learn how to contribute to research better. Also, which of them would be better in the long term (mostly for research/teaching, but I would like working in a hospital as well if the occasion arises).


After I have searched some programs where I can try to apply for a scholarship, I have found these options:


- University of Manchester - either the Cockcroft Institute or CRUK;


- DKFZ - if I have understood correctly, I would have to register at the Faculty of Biosciences (in Heidelberg) as well.


I do have some experience in presenting Medical Physics topics in national conferences (about NEOTRANS1 and NEOTRANS2 for example), and was invited this year as a guest during an episode of an international MPh podcast. I know there is a lot more to improve, but I do believe this is a decent start and am looking forward to learn more about myself too.


Which city is more likely to have more "decent" expenses, so to say, in that I would have a better chance to pay the rent, and which option would be better to choose so I can shape my research abilities in MPh?


Also, what are other things to take in consideration during the admission process?


Any answer, experience sharing or constructive criticism is much appreciated!
Comments: 
Haven't been to Heidelberg, but Manchester is nice and has a strong student population. The Christie Hospital (Manchester) is world leading so you'd be well placed. Just be careful as some scholarships are "UK only" as International students have higher fees.

Here's a good resource if you're looking for a PhD in the UK:
https://www.findaphd.com/phds/?Keywords=radiotherapy

I'd reach out to potential supervisors ASAP to check the scholarship is still available. You're a bit late in the season to start looking for a PhD and they might have gone. 

Good luck!
	Thanks a lot for the insight! 

I'll finish my Masters in July 2024 but the idea of reaching out is very good. I'll proceed to it. Best wishes!
For scholarships in Germany take a look here: https://www.daad.de/en/

Also some PhD positions in radiation therapy open from time to time. For instance OncoRay in Dresden (https://www.oncoray.de) has also a great PhD program and positions open every time, you can also look there and apply. 

Heidelberg is a pretty city but has the problem to find a room, because of the university is quite full and the rents are going up. Dresden is also a beautiful city.
	Thank you so much!
