Post Title: [Training Tuesday] - Weekly thread for questions about grad school, residency, and general career topics 06/13/2023
Post Content: This is the place to ask questions about graduate school, training programs, or general basic career topics. If you are just learning about the field and want to know if it is something you should explore, this thread is probably the correct place for those first few questions on your mind.

Examples: 

* "I majored in Surf Science and Technology in undergrad, is Medical Physics right for me?"
* "I can't decide between Biomedical Engineering and Medical Physics..."
* "Do Medical Physicists get free CT scans for life?"
* "Masters vs. PhD"
* "How do I prepare for Residency interviews?"
Comments: 
Do you know any Medical Physicists in the US that studied in Italy? We have a specialization school (3 years, after a master's degree in physics) here, do you think someone with this curriculum could find a job in the US?
	Would have to enroll in a 2 year MS program or certificate program and complete a 2 or 3 year residency.
	Real hard, because this curriculum still not CAMPEP accredited, so no board certification. Sounds like it isn't a PhD also, so no certificate can e done. In my view, this specialization school would be great for getting into a CAMPEP program here, but that would mean another 2yr master or PhD before getting a residency and then board certified.
What is something you wish that you would have been more prepared for as a student in terms of preparing for residency or interviews etc.
	For residency interviews, understand that, while most programs ask technical questions and try to gauge your knowledge based on things you've been exposed to in graduate school, the majority of places are really just trying to find out if you are the type of person that they want to spend the next two years working with. I would say in my interviews the distribution of questions was 75% personal/general questions about who you are and what your career aspirations are, and 25% were technical questions that were mostly related to things that everyone should know after a MS or PhD program completion, or things related to experiences on my CV. A great attitude and personality in an interview can make up for a lack of technical knowledge (to an extent) but for most places I doubt the inverse is true.

Best of luck!
As a second year master’s student, what should I do to prepare for my first annual conference next month? For the residency fair, is there anything I need to have prepared? What kind of clothing should I wear? I am already signed up for all the student activities.
	>what should I do to prepare for my first annual conference next month?

Wear comfortable shoes.  Be prepared to learn a lot of things.  Don't be afraid to ask questions or talk to people.
	Attire at the whole conference is business casual.
	Nothing to prepare except questions for the programs. Don't bother trying to sweet talk programs at the conference unless you're an actual superstar (very few of these). Use the experience to learn about different residencies. They won't remember you.

Find the residencies that want to educate you instead of use you for cheap labor. If you're doing qa a lot, you're cheap labor. You don't learn anything from qa after a couple runs. There are programs, despite what you'll hear here, where education is the focus and not cheap labor to let faculty/staff get away from monthly and annual qa.
		How can you tell the difference between a residency looking to educate vs a residency looking for cheap labor?
			Ask how often you have to do patient specific qa, monthly qa, and annual qa. If faculty don't do any of it, there's your answer. If you're doing hours of QA every night, or more than one monthly every month, or more than maybe 2 annuals, there's your answer.

Once you've done a few of these QAs you don't learn anything new. So ask yourself why you're doing more than that. Is it to share the burden or to be cheap labor?
				Gotcha! Currently working as an MPA, so I’m familiar with the cheap labor tasks and look forward to moving past them being my primary job. I appreciate the advice!
I am getting ready to take the ABR part 1 exam, and I’ve found out that I can optionally take one part of the exam this august (general or clinical), and postpone the other part to another examination period. 

I’ve been studying hard and feel ok about the test, but studying for both portions at once is a challenge so I was wondering what do people think about splitting part 1 between two years?
	I don't think that would be worth the headache. Part 1 clinical is a much smaller task than part 1 general, so might as well get it over with in one go.
		Dope, I appreciate you
Would not taking part 1 put me at a big disadvantage in residency applications? I will not be able to take it this August because I will be missing the whole year of coursework in my 2 year masters degree. Since ABR now offers part 1 only in August, are residency committees expecting most applicants to not have part 1 under their belt?
	It'll work against you at many institutions. Just the truth. Some might not care but probably any academic residency won't bother.
	When I reviewed residency applications, having passed part 1 was a plus. However, I didn't hold it against MS or certificate applicants if they hadn't passed yet. On the other hand, I expect PhDs to have passed part 1 prior to residency applications.
