Post Title: Radiation Therpist
Post Content: Hi! I was wondering if anyone has ever done a radiation therapy certification? Was it hard to find a job with only certification? I graduated college already and found a school that had like a “sped up” version of radiation therapy where i would get a certification instead of a degree since i already have a bachelors but am afraid that having a certification in radiation therapy would deter employers. I was told that employers look for those with degrees more than certification but am unsure if that’s true. Any thoughts?
Comments: 
I think that as long as the program is accredited and you'll be eligible to take the ARRT exam for radiation therapists, you should be fine. Most employers aren't going to care that your bachelor's is in something besides radiation therapy. It's certification that matters.

Work hard in your hands-on clinical training and cultivate good references. Be an eager learner. Be coachable. Prioritize patient safety. Those are important qualities for a new therapist.
	thank you!
Have you considered medical dosimetry? You can get a masters degree in 18mo & you do not need an rtt background. Check out the University of Wisconsin Lacrosse if interested.
	sounds interesting! will check it out, thank you!
If you don't mind me asking, what school did you find that had a certification program and what degree do you have? Literally have this same problem (I have a BA in Physics), was thinking I'd have to get another bachelor's.
	With a BA in physics you could look for open Medical Physics Assistant positions.
		Not sure if this is something I'd like to do. The pay seems to be pretty subpar (\~45k). I'd definitely want to put in a few more years, be an RT, and double my pay potential. Thanks for the suggestion though!
			oh, that is much lower salary than I have heard other physicists mention that they pay their MPA. I heard 60-90k. Maybe it depends on the institution and how they see the role.
			Pay for MPAs at my place starts at 70k.
	With a BA in physics, why not become a dosimetrist? That’s my background too

I guess it depends on what kind of work you like. If you like hands on and working directly with patients, therapy is good. If you like treatment planning and being more behind the scenes, dosimetry is good. Compensation for dosimetry is much better, if that matters to you.

For me, it’s easy. I like designing plans, like being behind the scenes, and don’t want to work directly with patients. The better pay is also pretty important to me—I’m in very good financial shape and supporting a family of four on one income

Return on investment for dosimetry is very good. I think it’s a nice sweet spot in the field—physics pays even better but you have to run the gauntlet of grad school, residency, and ABR, then also have issues with work-life balance and weird hours (at least that’s the case most places I’ve been)
		sounds amazing! can you elaborate on what designing plans usually look like on a day to day basis? also how many days do u work and how many hours? this job sounds interesting
			I'll try to sum it up as succinctly as possible while still being detailed... prepare for a wall of text

Treatment planning consists of importing CT simulations (scans of the patient when they're in the exact position they'll be for their treatments), fusing any secondary images that are needed (MRIs, PETCTs, pre-op CTs, etc), delineating healthy tissues that are considered 'organs at risk' (those which need to have radiation dose carefully limited below certain levels that are associated with significant risk of side effects)--this is the first phase of treatment planning. 

After this is done, everything is handed off to the radiation oncologist, who will delineate the target volume and determine how much dose the target needs to receive. 

After the radonc is finished with that, you'll take over again and design the actual treatment. This consists of deciding how the radiation will enter the patient--the angles the beams will come from, how the fields will be shaped, what energy the beams will have, how much radiation will come from each field, etc. There are various ways to accomplish this, but going into that gets too complicated to discuss here. The short story is that you can make these decisions manually or you can use optimization algorithms in the treatment planning software to find more complex solutions.

While doing this, you're trying to get the prescribed amount of radiation to cover the target volume while keeping the doses to the healthy tissues around the tumor below the pre-determined thresholds that are associated with higher risk of side effects. Often, compromises have to be made, and that requires discussing the case with the radonc.

Other issues can come up that require discussing the case with the medical physicists, the therapists, and the nurses. It just depends on each specific case. Some patients need surgical procedures and/or chemotherapy to be coordinated with radiation therapy, and we'll need to talk to our nurses to figure out what's going on with that. Sometimes there's an issue with the patient's setup, and we'll need to talk to the radiation therapists about it. Some patients have routine cases, some get complicated or have unusual circumstances.

Once the plan is done, we review with the radonc, then we get the plan ready for the medical physicists to do their second checks and quality assurance. If they see any issues, we'll discuss with them and resolve those. Then we get the plan ready for the radiation therapists to deliver it. Those details are probably too granular to describe here. Basically, just making sure everything is done in our software for the plan to be deliverable at the machine, and making sure setup details are documented clearly, so the therapists know how to position the patient and deliver the treatment accurately.

Whew... well that's it. That's most of what we do, boiled down as best as I can.
		Yeah, Medical Physics pays well but the hours seem terrible and doing two years of grad school plus 2 years of residency (and having to fight PhDs for said residency, cause I'd pursue an MS) doesn't seem very appealing.  


I considered dosimetry, but it seems like the opinion of many Medical Physicists is that dosimetry is a dying field due to artificial intelligence. I'm skeptical, but I don't have direct experience. Maybe you could tell me what you think?  


Also, I've heard other radiation therapists say you'd need work exp as an RT to become a dosimetrist. You're making me think that's not the case lol. If I did pursue dosimetry, what would that look like? Your response implies I wouldn't run the gauntlet of grad school, but wouldn't I still need grad school to be a dosimetrist?  


Any other info would also be awesome. :) Thanks for your response!
			That's the same calculation I made when deciding between medical physics and dosimetry. I could go to dosimetry school for 12 months, or do 4 years of grad school and residency with a greater chance of failure at each step due to the level of competition for those spots. I also just didn't want to do medphys work. I prefer treatment planning.

I'll answer your question about RT experience first and then get to the AI thing afterward because that's an essay.

You don't need RT experience to be a dosimetrist. That WAS the primary path into dosimetry because most people used to be trained on the job. Now, OTJ will no longer make you eligible for certification--you have to graduate from an accredited dosimetry program. It will be anywhere from 12 months to 24 months of school. You'll have the option to get a certificate, another bachelor's, or a master's. I got a BS in dosimetry in 12 months (46 credit hours total). It depends on each program. You can look up the accredited programs on the JRCERT website and see who takes non-RTs, what the terminal credential is, and how long the program is.

I was never an RT. I got a degree in physics and then applied to a program that had a path for non-RT students (which was not common at the time... most schools only took RTs). I did the program and then got my first job at a nationally known and respected hospital within months of graduation. Not being an RT was not a problem at all. Having a degree in physics was a plus everywhere I've interviewed (although also not remotely a requirement... I graduated dosimetry school with someone who had a biology degree and no RT experience, and they've been very successful).

If you go to dosimetry school with no RT experience, you will take some classes and clinical rotations to cover the RT aspect. It won't be full RT training, but it will be enough to understand their role and have some perspective on what you need to do as a dosimetrist to help them do their jobs. Make a mental note of that idea... as a dosimetrist, you will have opportunities to help RTs do their jobs easily, or to make things more difficult for them. A good dosimetrist knows how to help them. Without RT experience, you will need to do more work to figure this out. Mostly it just involves talking to them, asking them questions, shadowing them on the machines sometimes to see them work, etc.

Okay, my thoughts regarding AI:

Artificial intelligence isn't going to kill dosimetry jobs, it will just change them. As AI in radonc gets better, there will be an increase in adaptive radiation therapy. Eventually, we'll be making adjustments to treatment plans every day when the patient is already positioned for treatment. It's already being done in a minority of clinics for certain types of treatments. It will gradually become more widespread and will probably become the standard for many different types of cancers. Prostate cancer will likely be one of the first where daily adaptive planning becomes common. Prostates can move a lot from day to day (and honestly, from moment to moment), and we can image the patient on the treatment table and see what adjustments need to be made. It's already standard to adjust the patient's position based on these daily scans, but it's also possible to adjust the actual distribution of dose. AI will make it easier to accomplish this in the narrow window of time that's available when the patient's already on the table.

IIRC, the current ASTRO recommendation for staffing dosimetrists is that you need one dosimetrist for every 250 patients treated annually. On average, there's between 1 and 2 treatments planned per patient (most need 1, some need 2, many fewer need more than 2). So let's call it 375 treatment plans per dosimetrist per year. With widespread daily adaptive planning, it could be thousands of plans per dosimetrist per year. AI makes that possible. It doesn't replace dosimetrists.
				Whew! thanks for all your commentary. I think you've quite literally convinced me to go into dosimetry. Your job seems very interesting and it's also the most convenient option after I graduate in the near future. you're super awesome for all that information.  


I just have one more follow up, do you think a cert vs bachelors vs masters makes much of a difference?  


Again, thank you so much. :)
					You’re welcome!

In my opinion, the credential doesn’t matter as long as you’re eligible for the MDCB exam and CMD certification. A higher degree can make your resume stand out vs others, but it’s uncommon to see a job posting that requires a master’s in dosimetry. Usually that would be for a teaching job or something, and you won’t be going for those fresh out of school.

Your BA in physics will help you stand out against other applicants.

If you finish dosimetry school, have decent grades, and good references, you will get a job. Guaranteed.

Good luck with whatever path you choose!

Btw I recommend shadowing somewhere while you’re still figuring this out. I just called a couple clinics nearby when I was figuring it all out, and they were happy to let me come in and shadow. I think most places will be accommodating.
			I'd like to see where you heard many MPs saying dosimetry is going to die out, because honestly nobody at my hospital believes that. Indeed there is a projected dosimetrist shortage because there's not a lot of training programs and patient volumes are going up. [https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0958394723000456](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0958394723000456)
				I heard it from browsing this subreddit when I was curious about dosimetry a year or so ago, a lot of MPs were dooming about it. Here are some examples:  


\- https://www.reddit.com/r/MedicalPhysics/comments/ip1jtt/job\_outlook\_for\_dosimetrist/  


\- https://www.reddit.com/r/MedicalPhysics/comments/ej8r2d/medical\_dosimetry\_interest/  


\- https://www.reddit.com/r/MedicalPhysics/comments/b859vx/considering\_a\_career\_in\_dosimetry\_thoughts/
					All 3 of those posts have healthy debates in the comments about the implications of automation in dosimetry, but to me it seems like the majority opinion of the commenters is that automation will help the field rather than kill it, at least when considering a realistic timescale (next few decades vs 100 years from today).
	I’m located in NYC and Manhattan college offers an accelerated radiation therapy certification for 2ish years for those who already have a BA. After the completion of the program, you sit in for the ARRT to get certified. I have a BA in Human Biology.
		Interesting. OHSU offers a BS in Radiation Therapy and it's about a 24 month program from what I've gathered, especially since I've already accomplished a lot of the prereqs doing a BA in physics. My personal reason for wanting to do a cert would be to accelerate those two years. I've also been reading that RT programs exist for those who already have a bachelors but didn't find one until now, cool to know they're actually real! Thanks for sharing your experience. :)
[removed]
	🤣 omg
Are medical physics jobs hard to come by? I’m an RTT following the group so maybe I’m missing something
