Post Title: Market/Salary for new grad medical physicists
Post Content: My wife is now a a medical physics resident pending part 3. She was just offered a job with >4 weeks weeks vacation, good medical/dental, and an annual performance bonus and salary just over $160k. Is this seemingly a pretty fair offer in the current market? She has not interviewed at multiple sites but loves the site, just doesn’t want to sign on without knowing if this is at least fair market value.

Edit: the job is in therapy and the position is pending completion of her residency and passing part 2
Comments: 
That seems, overall, fair. Of course depending on the location that can also look spectacular, or kinda meh. My experience, on knowing a handful 1-2nd years goes as: most started around 140k, 2 passed part 3 and are now at 155k and 160k. I have a 5yr friend that is at around 170k now.

Just wrote all of this and just remember that, of course, imaging vs therapy salaries are different. All I talked about was imaging, for therapy you can bump those numbers up (by a lot at some places)
	Thank you for the reply! Just edited the post to reflect it’s a therapy job. We’re in a major metropolitan area and the job is about 40 minutes outside the city
I would say that’s pretty fair for someone who is just about to graduate and has only passed part 1. A couple of questions. 

1. How many other physicists are at the site and how many patients/linacs/special procedures?

2. Does this require call duty?

3. Are there bonuses once she passes parts 2 and 3? 

4. Who will she report to? Chief Physicist or Dept Dir? Is there adequate physics equipment? Does she “like” the way they perform/manage physics? Will she have an opportunity to learn or will she be wedged into a niche?
	I agree the salary seems fair. To the the biggest thing is the workload and work/life balance.

$165k is nice for 40 hour weeks. If the expectation is 50+ hours, no thanks. And if kids come in the picture, the less work the better obviously. So it’s all about finding the average hourly wages based on expected hours worked. Also how appropriately staffed is it? Does she have flexibility to take off kind of whenever, or will it be a big deal to do that?

For reference, I’m 6 years out of residency. Hired on at $145k, jumped to $177k after part 3. 4-5% annual raises and I’m at $222k currently, 29 days PTO/year. All that, and I rarely work 40 hours, never work weekends, no call. We’re well staffed so if a kid is sick I take off, I’m the one who takes kids to appointments because I’m more flexible than my wife’s job.

In short, choose the place that’s best for all the reasons stated above, not just salary. 

Also don’t underestimate the cost (time and money) of her commute.
		Agree 💯. You have a nice setup there. Are y’all allowed to wfh if needed?
			We discussed implementing a formal wfh system, but eventually we scrapped it. Personally I don’t like wfh. I like going to work, staying busy, and bullshitting with people.

That being said, if things come up we certainly can wfh. Sick kid, waiting on some delivery, etc are all reasons we wfh if needed. So we’re really flexible.
				That’s excellent. Good for y’all. I’m in reverso world. Lol
		Damn, you got a nice gig. We have good hours at my place, but our chief is barely making more than you.
			Our chief is at $275k
				Not too shabby. I’m pretty close - I’m a chief as well - but don’t have near the environment as y’all do. Seems like you have a really good situation there.
					Yeah, I definitely recognize how nice this place is. I commute 30 miles every day to work here. There’s another center 2 miles from my house, but they are sooo understaffed for their patient load they literally couldn’t pay me enough to work there.
						Lol. That sucks for them but good for you. I’m glad there are examples of how cancer centers and physics groups can be run. Maybe it’ll make a difference one day to those that can’t seem to see the light.
Geez. 5 weeks of vacation is awesome.
Congratulations to your wife for landing a job. There is a lot of work that goes into a salary offer. I try to tell our new hires to look at the total compensation package not just the salary. 

Does the 5 weeks vacation include holidays and sick time? Is the performance bonus guaranteed?  What metrics does she have to meet to get the bonus?  How much money is put in the retirement plan? 

The salary number sounds reasonable but I want to know more about the other details.
She should have access to the AAPM salary survey as a student member. That’s pretty good, especially for a new grad MS without board certification. If it doesn’t hurt, you should still encourage her to interview at other sites.
One big thing that varies is employer match/contribution, pension, access to 457b/f or 409a since hopefully at some point you can max out 401k/403b. That being said 10% contribution is vastly superior than 50% match up to 6%
Also, look at the latest AAPM salary survey and find where does your wife fits (should be 2yrs, No certification, Masters)
That could be anything from pretty good to slightly meh for an MS rad onc physicist. Would depend on a few factors like local cost of living mostly. 

I will say one thing though, even as someone who’s probably considered by my peers to be financially driven. This work can be stressful, and the hours can be long. Liking what you do and who you do it with is crucial and you can’t put an objective number on it.

She can look at the salary survey to make sure she isn’t being insulted with this offer. But I’d imagine even in Cali or NY etc that ballpark 165k for unboarded MS is reasonable. 

The state-level data in the survey aren’t very detailed, so if you look in the first few tables for MS, rad onc, lowest experience, she should probably try her luck at 80th percentile (90th? Whatever is the top one they list) if you’re in a HCOL area.

Also make sure to weigh retirement benefits. Things like matches or automatic contributions add up very quickly. Your wife will be paying a lot of taxes and investing without that tax burden is a big deal.
It’s become increasingly commonplace for a board cert bump. I have seen anywhere from 20-30k upon passing part 3 for therapy. It may be worthwhile to ask what the policy is there. 

165k seems to be in a good ballpark compared to the residents I know who have started jobs this July. Most were in the 150-170k range but not nearly as much vacation. All depends on CoL, of course.

It can be very fruitful to interview at a few places even if you have your heart set on a particular site. Competitive offers can be good bargaining chips, but the professional connections are always a big plus in our field. It can also help you get an idea of the current market since the most recent salary survey is quickly becoming outdated (to be replaced soon, though).
Off topic, but this makes UK salaries look like peanuts 😣
	As a Brit, reading these wages bring a tear to my eye 💀😂😭
We Appreciate all the reply’s here everyone. It seems like the salary in the field is incredibly varied, so all the advice has been appreciated. I’ll update the post when I have more information
[deleted]
	For after completion of her residency and passing part 2
This is almost what some physicists with 10 years of experience that have not changed jobs in several years are making. More than fair.
It’s not bad but I think she should at least negotiate a bump for when she becomes certified.  Also maybe inquire about a professional allowance for meetings, professional dues, and such.
