Post Title: Should students go to the annual AAPM?
Post Content: Are there any benefits of students going to annual AAPM? Should they go for the entire thing or for one student events? Are there students events happening for one day or for the entire AAPM conference?
Comments: 
If you’re funded or can afford it, yes.
It sounds a little bit like business-school thinking (Ewwww! Blugggh!) but one thing that I did when I went to my first conference as a student was make some business cards. I grabbed a pack of them from an office supply store, made a quick card with the university logo, my name, and my contact info using the manufacturer's Word template, and kept a few in my pocket. It was super handy, and avoided the need for people to slowly put my name in their phone.
Yes. And make connections, bring your cv. Give it to people you like, or at least exchange contact info. RadOnc is such a small field & there is a good chance you will be remembered for when you are ready to start looking for a career.
Yes you should go if you can afford it. Attending the entire conference is probably not necessary, but I think 2 full days is probably enough. 

Go network, meet people. Go to the night out, especially the student night out and start growing your network. Go listen to all the different talks. There's science talks, professionalism talks, and even history talks. There's a new member symposium, and a residency fair. All of those things are very valuable as a newer member of the field.
There are a couple sessions where current residents are meeting with prospective residents with no one else allowed. There's also the residency fair.

Aside from those, just talking to people and showing your interest will make you stand out. If you're super outgoing, meet people. If you're more reserved or nervous, try to get your professor(s) to introduce you to some people they know.
Here’s my response to a similar question posted a month or so ago. 

TLDR: Yes, go. 

Yes, I definitely recommend going. When I was in grad school we went as grad students and enjoyed the experience. I also attended as a recent grad. AAPM is not just for the old and crusty physicists. My suggestions on what to attend or see:

1.	⁠Refresher and Education talks. These are generally good and provide relevant, clinical information.
2.	⁠Posters. Peruse at your leisure and you’ll find some good research.
3.	⁠Vendors. It’s never too soon to begin building connections within the vendor community. They are good people and very knowledgeable. At times you can also get free, in person training.
4.	⁠Events. Go to the Night Out and other functions. They can be fun and will allow you to meet up with friends.
5.	⁠Committees. If there’s a AAPM topic you are interested in attend a committee meeting or even the board of directors open session. Committees are a great way to be involved  and meet other physicists.

What not to attend: Scientific sessions. I know this may upset those who do research, and I appreciate their work, but so much of it is either so specialized you’ll never see it or it’s just presenting so they can present. Again, they have put a lot of effort and time, I just don’t find much use for it. That being said, if you do see an interesting session and there’s nothing else going on, then go. Every now and then you’ll hear something truly motivating.

Before going, or each night, go through the schedule and plan your day. It’s also a good idea to take some time the day before and find your way around. Conference centers can be large and at times you won’t have a lot of time.

But go. Be a part of the organization.
I feel like this question is being asked by someone in management who doesnt want to send students to AAPM, and they are begging to go
That's the BEST time to go!  You don't have to worry about getting credits or attending boring talks.  You can just party your ass off, especially if someone else is paying for it.  Back in the day, the vendors would take you out and pay for everything.  It was a week long booze fest.  I'm guessing things may have changed a bit since then.  I still remember one vendor taking us out with his company's black card.  I sat down at the bar, and promptly ordered a Johnny Blue, for like 50 bucks or so.  I have some pretty good stories from AAPM meetings as a student/jr physicist.  I've probably already said too much, LOL.
