Post Title: [Training Tuesday] - Weekly thread for questions about grad school, residency, and general career topics 04/04/2023
Post Content: This is the place to ask questions about graduate school, training programs, or general basic career topics. If you are just learning about the field and want to know if it is something you should explore, this thread is probably the correct place for those first few questions on your mind.

Examples: 

* "I majored in Surf Science and Technology in undergrad, is Medical Physics right for me?"
* "I can't decide between Biomedical Engineering and Medical Physics..."
* "Do Medical Physicists get free CT scans for life?"
* "Masters vs. PhD"
* "How do I prepare for Residency interviews?"
Comments: 
Does anyone have any advice when applying to grad school? Also if possible can anyone tell me their gpa, experience, etc when you applied to medical physics. I just want to get a better understanding of where I stand when it comes to getting accepted.
	Hi, I got my BS in physics in Dec 2019, I applied to grad schools around them (Dec-Jan) for the fall semester of 2020.Most Uni's starts on the Fall semesters and receive application until March-April, check the application window (when it starts and deadline) for places you want to apply and go from there. I had a 3.84 GPA and 2 years of MRI research experience.
		Thanks for the info.
	I also got my BS in physics in 2019. 2.9 GPA with no prior MP experience. Applied to a handful of CAMPEP masters programs but only got accepted to one program. Had strong letters of rec, which I was told was the main reason I was accepted. 

Looking back, I would have tried to shadow a clinical MP if I had stumbled upon the field earlier. Many MPs are surprisingly willing to have people shadow. We offer it at our site to people who ask. If you can find the contact info for a site in your area, it never hurts to shoot ‘em an email!
[deleted]
	You'd probably need to take some extra courses to get the equivalent of a minor in Physics.  For the best answer, contact a few programs you're interested in and find out what their prerequisites are.
		[deleted]
			What courses are required to be considered a Physics minor is probably going to vary from school to school.  Best to check with the school you're at and/or the graduate program(s) you're considering to see what they're are looking for.
			I second what others have said - check with programs you're interested in to see exactly what courses they require or recommend.  Most programs are vague and just say physics minor or a equivalent.  Some like [Duke](https://medicalphysics.duke.edu/admissions/admissions-prerequisites/) have more specific recommendations/requirements right on their web page.

I'm only a 1st year resident.  I was a physics major with a traditional course load that prep'd people for physics grad school, so there was definitely stuff I didn't need for an applied/professional degree like an MS in medical physics.  If I had to pick just a few upper level courses, I'd like an intermediate/advanced E&M, a whole intro course for quantum and then at least a modern physics course that intros a lot of special relativity, nuclear, particle and solid state physics.  You could also take more rigorous courses that just focus on each of those, but those go deeper than I think you need for the rad physics courses you take in med phys.  If you want to get deep into the math and computational stuff, you can certainly can dive deep into that in medical physics, especially if you are academic, but for most of us considering clinical paths, a good understanding of where these algorithms and models come from is probably good enough.

On top of that, a lab course that's very hands on that lets you do experiments that take some time and care, make you understand a lot of instrumentation, data analysis, uncertainty analysis, etc.  For example, most programs should have upper level courses where you do just a 3-4 experiments over a semester.  An independent study/research project under a professor would also be good for that, too.

Aside from that, I'd say at least 2 semesters of calculus, preferably three to get multivariable/vector calc.  Linear algebra and a semester of differential equations also helps, more conceptually.  I didn't have to do a ton of high level calculations or derivations in the required CAMPEP coursework, but it does help understand concepts and you could use your extra skills to extend into deeper projects.  If your university offers less mathematically rigorous options for scientists/engineers, I'd opt for those.  

I took a 2 semester sequence in anatomy and physiology which helped a lot (and was fun), though you'll have to take an anatomy class for the med phys degree anyway.
How do people use wepassed for part 1? Just the questions under the review section and exam? The lectures and stuff in the library looks more geared towards part 2 and 3.
	I originally used the review section in wepassed but many of the questions were weird/outdated. It gets a good general idea of part 1 but had some topics that are no longer part of the exam.

I ended up switching to Huda’s radiological physics book for imaging and Khan’s Lectures for therapy. A handbook of anatomy/physiology would have probably helped some too, but the Huda book definitely carried me through.
		I have huda, need to dig it out thanks
Hello everyone,  
  
I am one of applicants who has been accepted to Purdue's MS degree program(medical physics) for the fall. I wanted to get a general overview of what it likes to attend Purdue before I make a decision. As i'm currently conflicted on either going to UPenn for their master's program or Purdue.  
  
Context:  
  
I'm a little torn between the two because as for purdue: I was able to get a GEM schorlarship that would cover the tuition and fees. And purdue seems to provide a good amount of clinical exposure while doing research. Though I am a little iffy about their match rates for residency. Their website isn't that thorough about it. As for UPenn: I would have to take a wapping loan in hopes of paying for tuition and living expenses. Though there are scholarships I can apply to. On the other hand, they tend to have high match rates, plenty of clinical exposure right off the bat, and very unique opportunities/experiences. I'm just concerned about paying debt for a good chunk of my life and not being able to do anything else. Ideally, if i did go this route, I would like to get rid of those debts within the first two years of getting a job after residency. Seems like most students i've spoken with who go to UPenn are relying on their salary to pay back the loans. Anyway, that's the story. It would be really great to receive any kinds of information from you. (Also, if possible, any other aspects of Purdue program that I may need to consider)
	I would recommend UPenn from what I've heard from others. I knew a UPenn grad who was very confident going right into the field. Also, Residency is where this field bottlenecks and you really need to maximize your odds of getting one. If UPenn has higher match rates, go there. I've heard their program is great. Haven't heard anything about Purdue. Remember the education is an investment in your career, and the payout is pretty nice if you make it into a  clinical career. It's worth it imo.
What would be a good way to transition into health physics in the medical field? Currently I’m a HP tech at a lab but would like to eventually transition to working at hospitals and potential traveling around for it too. I’m not sure how to transition into medical physics without accepting a huge pay decrease either, if anyone has input on that.
	Health physics or medical physics?  There are health physicists who are in radiation safety for a university and its connected hospital.  I don't know much about the training requirements for health physics, except that their board exam sounds very challenging to me.

For medical physics, it depends on your background.  I haven't looked into the training requirements for medical physicist assistants, so that might be the fastest way into the field.

If you have a PhD in physics or closely related science, you could do a 1-year medical physics certificate program in a CAMPEP-accredited program.  I know some people do this while continuing to work (part time?).  Then a 2 year CAMPEP-accredited residency.  I don't know anyone who held down another job at the same time as a residency.

If you don't have a PhD, you will likely need to complete a CAMPEP-accredited master's degree program (2 years), and then a CAMPEP-accredited residency (2 years).  I know people who've held part-time jobs during the master's degree.  

In order to get into any of the CAMPEP programs, you're supposed to have at least the equivalent of a minor in physics: calculus-based intro physics, modern physics, and at least 3 junior or senior level courses like classical mechanics, E&M, quantum mechanics, nuclear & particle physics, thermo & stat physics.  Often undergraduate degrees in engineering or chemistry have enough courses that are similar enough for admission.  The applied courses that might sound like they'd be the most relevant were and might still be specifically not allowed in the count of undergrad courses - courses like electronics, some optics classes, any course with medical physics in the name, etc.
		Thank you for replying with all the info! I have a B.S in physics and as far as medical or health physics goes, I’m not entirely sure. I haven’t read too much on medical physics to know if it is a career path I’d like to commit to the next 6+ years yet. I figured by working health physics in the medical field there would be some overlap to see if that is what I wanted later for my career. I think looking into radiation safety at hospitals is great advise and I’ll definitely check that out! Thanks again!
How does the day to day work life of an Imaging Physicist Looks like after residency? I am trying to decide accepting an imaging residency offer for January 2024 vs. waiting till July 2024 for Therapy Residency that I have more interest in? Considering how competitive residency is, should I jump on the imaging residency available for immediately after my graduation in December 2023? Or wait for therapy residency?  


Note: I assume there are less mathematical physics in therapy and assume it simpler. What do you think? Is that a correct basis for decision?  


In Diagnostic vs Therapy Physicist role, is there anything that sets Diagnostic apart or that makes it great compare to Therapy?  


Is double board certification for Imaging and Nuclear. Med worth the three years or it is better if I patiently wait for Therapy two years residency if the pay matters to me also?
	I don't know which one is 'simpler', but I don't spend any time solving math problems.

DX/NM has the biggest advantage (for me) over therapy in that you cast a wider net. I.e. you don't deal with the same machine every day like with a linac. One day might be CT, the next PET, the next angio, etc. Keeps things fresh.

The pay is better for therapy. There are also more jobs. Pick what you think you'll be happier doing because you'll do it every day for a long a time.
		>DX/NM has the biggest advantage (for me) over therapy in that you cast a wider net. I.e. you don't deal with the same machine every day like with a linac. One day might be CT, the next PET, the next angio, etc. Keeps things fresh.  
>  
>The pay is better for therapy. There are also more jobs. Pick what you think you'll be happier doing because you'll do it every day for a long a time.

Thank you so much the valuable insight.
	My biased answer is that no, it is not simpler, and that it is far more interesting than therapy. There is no "correct" answer for what is the better field to get into, just what field is best for you.
		Thank you so much.
Best free resources for ABR p1?
	Oncology medical physics
For those of you who applied for residency as MS MP graduates with little/no experience and didn't match, took a few years to get a PhD and/or relevant clinical experience, and then reapplied, how were the residency interviews the second time around? I assume one would get many more interviews, but I'm looking to see how the interviews themselves went the second time around.
When should i start applying for phd programs(mainly scholarships) in medical physics
I finish my 1st year in a month and will work on a thesis project after that.
And is there some site that specializes in scholarships related to our field?
	Majority of PhD programs waive tuition and pay you a stipend to attend so you wouldn’t need scholarships for tuition purposes. The AAPM website does have some fellowships/grants available but I believe most of them are for current grad students rather than prospective. 

As for applying, most deadlines I’ve seen are typically the December-February before the fall semester you would start so if you are a first year undergraduate you have plenty of time.
