Post Title: Best time to job search as a resident
Post Content: What is the best time to start job searching as a diagnostic resident? Is one year in advance too soon? I’ve heard some people say that they started applying 13-14 month in advance while others say they were applying 4 months away, and I’m just curious what other opinions may be. 

If you’re a recent residency graduate, when did you start applying for jobs? 

If you’re a hiring physicist, what are your thoughts? 

Thanks in advance!
Comments: 
Get on the medphysusa listserv and the diagnostic listserv and just start keeping an eye out.  When I was doing applying, most places started posting positions around December through May, some a bit earliersome a bit later.  Most places looking for fresh residency graduates are going to be looking for those finishing residency this year and ready to work this summer.  Applying 13-14 months in advance doesn't seem practical, as just about all of the openings available at that time are going to be filled by this year's graduates.  The very ealiest I would guess you could get some effectivess from a job search would probably be this fall.  Until then, your best bet is networking, keep building connections with people.  If there is a certain place(s) you're interested in working, ask about shadowing them for a day or two.
I applied for my academic position while I was only 6 months into residency, and I got it. Kind of a unique situation though. 

Usually I think 6-12 months away from graduation is where you start looking, and honestly start trying to interview when 3-6 months out. Some people may still say that they can't wait 3-6 months, but most of the time it can work if it's a good match.
Listserv is always a good place to start. If you go to annual AAPM conferences, there are usually job boards with spots to leave your resume. A few people I know landed positions from those job boards well ahead of graduating.
All the times. Always be working that next gig.
Never too early to be looking and networking. 

We have had cases of an upcoming retirement where we knew we would need a replacement like 18 months in advance, but we have also had sudden departures where we wanted someone who could start asap. So totally depends, but it wouldn't be weird for residents to reach out.
