Post Title: [Training Tuesday] - Weekly thread for questions about grad school, residency, and general career topics 02/07/2023
Post Content: This is the place to ask questions about graduate school, training programs, or general basic career topics. If you are just learning about the field and want to know if it is something you should explore, this thread is probably the correct place for those first few questions on your mind.

Examples: 

* "I majored in Surf Science and Technology in undergrad, is Medical Physics right for me?"
* "I can't decide between Biomedical Engineering and Medical Physics..."
* "Do Medical Physicists get free CT scans for life?"
* "Masters vs. PhD"
* "How do I prepare for Residency interviews?"
Comments: 
The residency that I went into adhered to University policies with which it was associated. They would not hire smokers, choice including tobacco and cigarettes.
Hey all, a question regarding drug screening before residency. 
I've always been in and out of smoking cigarettes and weed.
Anxious times like this , I smoke 3 to 6 cigarettes a day and as for weed, every Friday night where I smoke one joint  2 to 3 hrs just to relax and put my mind off somewhere.
 
As interviews for the residency progresses, I was learning about an on boarding process and soon found out that for medical residency, drug screening almost always happens.

I tried to find a relevant information for the physics residency and there aren't much.

Now, obviously my 'coping method' just isn't worth it when comparing to the risk of sabotaging my career path; and today I ordered self testing kit for THC and started a complete abstinence.

Is there anyone that has any knowledge about a drug screening before residency? Any will help tremendously.

Many thanks in advance
	I mean it's pretty standard stuff. I imagine that the drug screen would happen during the onboard process, which if you match will be like April-June sometime. Should be enough time for your system to clear it.
		Thanks for the input. Does the screening test include testing tor tobacco/nicotine consumption as well?
	I know my facility DOES require a drug test for incoming residents (med phys treated just like other residents).  I do NOT know whether it specifically looks for cigarette-related substances and/or THC.  My recollection is that THC, in particular, can be problematic because of how long it can persist in the body and show up in urine.
	Yes, I had to get a drug test before starting my residency along with a few other healthcare industry specific tests at a catch-all appointment like blood draw for TB testing, color blind testing and they even gave me a tetanus booster since I was behind on that. I saw your other question about cigarettes and since cigarettes are not illegal in the United States they won’t test for it or care if you smoke cigarettes. Although once you get into residency and see how the most of lung cancer patients suspiciously smell like cigarette smoke you may change your mind on that habit…
		Thank you very much for sharing the information! Yes I often feel silly smoking as a employee in a RadOnc dept  and quitting is always on the back of my mind. Well the stars have aligned and signs are apparent lol. Thank you again and wish me luck on Match this year :D
			Please note that any subsequent jobs you get after residency will definitely do the same process, so adjust marijuana/THC as it comes.
				Thanks for the heads up Kerma. I will definitely be mindful of this.
It might be a bit early, but I graduate in December. Does anyone know of any CAMPEP residencies that have a January start date?
	The nonmatch ones might.
Hello everyone, has anyone heard anything from Penn regarding interviews for their graduate program? I applied, but have yet to hear anything and their interview dates are scheduled for next week. Thanks!
	Heard from friend who’s still there that they’re still sending invites but will be done soon.
		I see. Thank you for your reply.
Is there universities in the US that offer BS in medical physics? If so, does it help to prepare for graduate medical physics programs?
	I don't know if there are, but it might be problematic.  The undergrad physics courses that are expected are more like classical mechanics, quantum mechanics, E & M, etc.  Back when ABR was checking undergrad courses, they specifically excluded anything that sounded medical, even optics and electronics.
Hey everyone! I just wanted to ask what is the best path to becoming a dosimetrist? I'm currently a radiation therapist and have been looking into getting my masters in dosimetry. How hard is it to get into dosimetry programs and what would be the best way to stand out on the application? I've been interested for a few years and would love to know what school you recommend. Any suggestions or comment would be greatly appreciated!
