Post Title: Medical physics residency matching for couples?
Post Content: My partner and I are both obtaining PhD's in physics and are both interested in ultimately going into medical physics. We know we need CAMPEP certification and will be doing that either together or separately, but are less concerned about that. Our main priority is residency matching in the same location. Is there any method to increase chances of doing residency in the same location? I see that MedPhys matching has a couples option -- is that all there is to it and how difficult is that? Thanks!
Comments: 
-Look towards bigger cities for a higher success rate; cities with more than one institution/residency program that you can each rank a couple of options within your top selections.  

-If you each have a great interview with different places that are regionally somewhat close, go for that....LA and Las Vegas might be a better long distance relationship than Seattle and Orlando.

I knew a couple that met in residency and wanted to stay together during their employment.  They did so successfully by moving to Boston and later LA, working at different institutions but living together in the same city.  High population areas have multiple healthcare facilities and therefore more potential openings.
I admire your desire to try and stay together during training but my advice is that your main priority should be getting into a residency, period. They are very competitive so try not to limit your opportunities. The ability to be in the same program or stay in the same city should be secondary. Two years goes by very quickly!
	Thanks for the advice! That is good to know, and we'll certainly prioritize getting into a residency at all. We are approaching this from the perspective of physics academia, so still trying to figure out the landscape of medical physics.
That's very sweet. I don't have much advice for this situation, but best of luck to you!  It might help to apply to residencies where there are multiple programs relatively close to each other or at a location that has many residency slots.  Also, there are times when a person who matched leaves the residency for whatever reason, then there is a vacancy that is filled outside of the match program.  So, if you don't match right away, don't give up.
	Thanks for the advice!
		Yeah, following up on this, I guess it'd probably be worth considering a site based on size - a place that has 5 residents will be better for your goal than a place that has just 1!
I know that there is a couples match for medical residencies, but for med phys I don't think that there are enough programs and applicants for it to be implemented, sorry.
Someone made a map of all residencies by location somewhere on this subreddit. It might be a helpful tool for looking for geographical areas that have a lot of residencies.
I would just focus on a geographical area that you are willing to travel for 5 or 6 hours to see each other in holidays or weekends. Unfortunately, you'll have to prioritize getting the residency over being together. It is a tough world out there for aspiring residents.
