Post Title: Why did you become a medical dosimetrist/Physicist?
Post Content: 
Comments: 
I was majoring in physics and when I did research during my summers I got bored as shit. So stereotypical PhD/research/teaching route didn’t appeal to me at all. Thought I was gonna go into nuclear engineering, but then found out about medical physics. The applied nature of the field + timeline (2 year MS; pre-2012/2014 initiative) + money sounded great.
	Are you me? Nearly identical to my story
		Very similar here as well. Just post-2014.
			Oh yeah. I was post 2014 residency requirement too. I try to block that whole process from my mind.
		I feel like if I had an alternate life, this is what my story would be
	What was pre-2012/2014 like, could anyone do a masters in medical physics? What initiative was placed?
		The ABR said in 2012, in order to sit for your boards, you had to graduate from an accredited grad program. 2014 is when they implemented the residency requirement. 

I brought it up because it meant I didn’t need to go to residency.
			I see so was this when the market was mega saturated?
				https://www.aapm.org/pubs/reports/detail.asp?docid=149#

Honestly i was in my 3rd year of physics undergrad, really loved theoretical physics but saw how job opportunities and prospects were seriously dull, on the other side, 2 of my relatives that are radiation oncologists really advised me to go into medical physics, seeing that i always liked to be a doctor or work in something applied to the medical field, i thought about it and saw what work was like, loved it and it is definitely better future and money.
Note: i am not a medical physicist yet, 1 year left to finish my M.sc.
My mother worked in radiation oncology, and because I had no real drive towards any particular profession she asked if I would like to come in and shadow the medical physicists she works with because she thought we had "similar personalities". Everything about the job appealed to me, even the boring parts of QA, chart checking, plan reviews, etc. Basically after a few days it just became completely obvious to me that this was the right course of action and I'm glad I stayed on that path. Granted, I got lucky and found a really solid work situation where I am not abused like I know some physicists are, but I can't imagine doing anything else. As a medical physicist in a clinic, if you can find a job with at least one experienced dosimetrist and a chief therapist that can easily adapt and handle anything, the rest is cake.
	> she thought we had "similar personalities"

Gee thanks mom!
		to be fair, she wasn't really wrong lol
I always wanted to be in the medical field but didn’t want to be as “front and center” as a nurse or doctor. I was also really good at math and science so it seemed like a perfect match!
The whole part of medical engineering, clinical engineering and bioengineering has always fascinated me, but my desire was to work in the health area and, if possible, in a hospital. Shortly before finishing my bachelor's degree in Electronic Engineering, my radio-oncologist friend told me about medical physics and what the job was like. I studied more about the subject and ended up deciding to study medical physics. After graduating in engineering I entered college again (now in med physics) and my friend invited me to spend time as a visiting observer in the radiotherapy ward at the largest radiotherapy treatment complex in the country. Since then, I've been striving to become an expert in radiotherapy.
After earning my BS in Physics, my plan was to go into Medical School. However, in the interim, I landed a teaching job at the local university as an instructor. It reminded me how much I really loved physics. I started asking around if there any careers that combined medicine and physics and my mom, a dietitian, introduced me to the physicist at the hospital. I was hooked …. sort of. When I applied yo graduate school I thought medical physics was all about MRIs, 🤷‍♂️. I remember interviewing at MD Anderson graduate program and one of the professors told me to go be a service engineer- asshat. Anyway, as I was in grad school I quickly learned that what I really wanted was therapy physics which is what my school focused on. Very lucky for that choice. Love the field. Not many people get to directly apply their science to helping people, in a very real way.
Sorry, this isn't a WHY so much as a HOW it all happened. The 'why' is that the work appeals to me.

I graduated with a BS in Physics and just about pulled the trigger on grad school when I joined some friends in a startup. I directed R&D in the area of electronic sensors at these companies (worked with Boeing, ATK, Redstone Arsenal, L3, etc.) and did a fair amount of engineered materials work; about six years in, and after some daydreaming,  I volunteered at an infusion center to test the waters as to a career in medicine. Infusion didn't seem to inspire in terms of a career, however, someone in the infusion center told me that there are these things called "Nuclear Pharmacists", so, I came back and shadowed the pharmacist on another occasion. I must  have seemed bored/unimpressed, so the pharmacist suggested I come back and shadow a Nuclear Med Tech. So, I shadowed a NMT for about a quarter of day, nice guy, had an Associates degree from an Agricultural College. He asked me "what was your major again?", I told him 'physics', and he said: "you know, they're these guys downstairs in Radiation Therapy, they're physicists". I said 'Great', and arranged to meet the medical physicists downstairs (one graduated Wisconsin, the other Wayne State); they showed me the linacs and talked about the work, and BAAM!  here I am after some schoolin', (pre-2012/2014)
Astrophysics is cool as shit and is my favorite subject still, but working in Astrophysics seems annoying as hell. Medphys lets you get away from academia/govt work where there's too much red tape and begging.
