Post Title: [Training Tuesday] - Weekly thread for questions about grad school, residency, and general career topics 06/27/2023
Post Content: This is the place to ask questions about graduate school, training programs, or general basic career topics. If you are just learning about the field and want to know if it is something you should explore, this thread is probably the correct place for those first few questions on your mind.

Examples: 

* "I majored in Surf Science and Technology in undergrad, is Medical Physics right for me?"
* "I can't decide between Biomedical Engineering and Medical Physics..."
* "Do Medical Physicists get free CT scans for life?"
* "Masters vs. PhD"
* "How do I prepare for Residency interviews?"
Comments: 
I have a BSc in Computer Science interested in MS in medical physics. I have taken the basic calculus based physics sequence as well as the math prereqs for physics majors and intro to modern physics. I have no research experience. 

What are the next steps I should take to have a strong application? And is it possible to get into a CAMPEP in my current situation?
	The campep graduate standards state that an applicant with a non-physics major should have the equivalent of a minor in physics.  What constitutes a minor in physics is up to the specific graduate program, however, the example campep gives is at least three upper level physics courses.  It appears that you probably have the course requirements to take those upper level physics courses, but I think the next steps you should take to increase your likelihood of acceptance is to take courses offered through the physics department that meet the upper level physics requirement.  Not sure what your specific institution offers, but at mine these were courses like Quantum, Optics, and Biophysics.

However, you should reach out to the graduate program directors at the programs you are interested in as they could give you more personalized advice.
Hi, Nice to meet you guys. I'm from South Korea and have bachelor's degree in Physics.

I will apply and study in medical physics graduate school in US which is accredited by CAMPEP for taking the ABR exams and becoming a medical physicist in US.

Here's my questions.

1. Can I take the ABR exams regardless of non-citizen of US after I graduated at the medical physics graduate school in US as an international student?
2. I wonder and am super concerned about getting a VISA. Is it hard to get a resident job in US as a foreigner? I need a Job VISA while I'm working at hospital, so I want to know in same situation like my case.

Thank you-all for all the supports.
	I believe ABR is international-friendly. Not sure if the process is any different but I have a few international friends who have passed their exams. 

The visa process is always tough. It seems the worst for residency as many CAMPEP-accredited residencies do not want to go through the process of supporting visas. Many academic centers will support and sponsor visas, but you most likely need a PhD to land those spots. Few sites accepting MS graduates are willing to sponsor visas. 

Outside of residency, more opportunities open up. Places will generally be more willing to support you as a full staff member than a resident.
With a lackluster undergrad in physics and a 4.0 ms ai + ml, do you think it would be worth perusing a PhD in medical physics? My masters is basically a glorified compsci degree so I imagine my bachelors would be more relevant despite being <3.0.
	Have you rectified what caused your lackluster undergraduate performance? Can you convincing explain it to an interviewer? 

It certainly doesn’t hurt to apply if it’s something you’re genuinely interested in. An easier pathway for you might be to get a medical physics masters and then applying for Ph.D. after you do well in your core classes. At that point people won’t care about your undergraduate grades if you do well in all your masters classes.
	Depends. Do you wanna do a glorified CompSci PhD in Medical Physics? Plenty of labs out there that would be interested in your AI/DL background if you’re knowledgeable, especially if you have any publications. You may struggle to match to any other type of lab (just my subjective opinion) if your physics fundamentals are lacking. If you’re incredibly passionate about it, you could retake some classes you did poorly on. There are too many well qualified applicants to take that kind of risk as a PI, I think.
Hi, i am finishing my master’s in Physics specialising in medical physics. I study in Europe and I’m interested in the clinical training. I have some queries regarding the next steps. Please let me know if I can reach out to you to clarify my questions, if you’re based in Europe. Thank you!
I have a BSc in comp sci from a US university, what would I need to do to get into a CAMPEP medical physics program? For context, I have taken the basic calculus based physics sequences, the math course prereqs for physics majors and intro to modern physics. I have no research/professional experience in physics. Is it viable to have a competitive application to get into a medical physics program at this time? If not, what next steps should I take?
