Post Title: [Training Tuesday] - Weekly thread for questions about grad school, residency, and general career topics 01/24/2023
Post Content: This is the place to ask questions about graduate school, training programs, or general basic career topics. If you are just learning about the field and want to know if it is something you should explore, this thread is probably the correct place for those first few questions on your mind.

Examples: 

* "I majored in Surf Science and Technology in undergrad, is Medical Physics right for me?"
* "I can't decide between Biomedical Engineering and Medical Physics..."
* "Do Medical Physicists get free CT scans for life?"
* "Masters vs. PhD"
* "How do I prepare for Residency interviews?"
Comments: 
What's the best way to get an MP related internship as a first year Master's student? I've been looking around the internet and talking with faculty/mp's/medical physicist assistants in my area, seeing if anyone needs an intern for the summer, but I thought I'd ask here and see if anyone knows a trick to it.
	I asked my program director, clinical instructors, professors, and radiology department professors. Ask your 2nd year classmates and PhD students too. Most the opportunities I had offered to me were research related. Others were just shadowing opportunities. I didn't find any that paid, but I got two really good letters of recommendations from the people I worked with. The resident at my school also let me know when they were planning on doing a machines annual test on a Saturday or Sunday. So just keep asking around.
Hii !!

My wife has PhD in pure physics. We are are permanent residents of Canada. She is interested in applying for CAMPEP accredited  certificate program. She will be getting her provisional PhD degree on 27th January 2023. The last date for  applying at University of Calgary was 15th January 2023. We are not familiar with university system of Canada. In India there are  almost nil chance to get admission after last date.                            
 Is there any possibility if we request them and explain our position so that her application should be considered  for September intake?

Also she was interested in applying to Western University. But at WU candidate must have scored 78% marks in last two years of undergrad. My wife has 75% in last two years of undergrad. She has 83% marks in one year PhD course work which is her latest performance. As she was hospitalized for three months in last year of her  undergrad due to which her marks took a dip. Is there any possibility that her application can be considered for September intake?( Or WU is extremely strict about there minimum qualification criteria ) 

Lastly she wants to remain prepared in advance for this program. What are learning resources/book that may  help her to self learn basics of Medical Physics? 
Or any other skill she can develop which will be useful in this field?
	Hi! I’m not sure about Calgary, but I would suggest applying to western university - they might consider her situation and base acceptance off PhD marks. The one year MSc campep program at western is a really great program - it is in person though, so no virtual option. I encourage you to email the department if you have more questions!
If you go to a campep accredited university for your masters, should you then go onto a campep accredited PhD program if you wanna continue to do research in the field?
	Many do, but it's not required for credentialing as the masters would take care of it.
Anyone got received an email for an interview in MD Anderson GSBS?
Hello everyone! I am a physics student in Latin America. I am finishing my bachelor's degree and would like to do a master's degree in medical physics. I have European nationality, so I would like to emigrate to a European country. Some countries I have considered are Germany, Portugal and Ireland. Could anyone give me their opinion or experience about studying a master's degree in medical physics in a European country? What university do you recommend? Are medical physicists well paid in your country?

Thanks!
	I am in the US but I have a friend who went to Italy, to the ICTP the international Centre for Theoretical Physics. They liked it and all but had to go back to south america bc he was on a government scholarship. It was a good program though, he did a residency at the end.
Does anyone have any recommendations for a comprehensive, mathematically rigorous text on MRI that's up a mathematician/physicist's alley? From the quantum mechanics to reconstruction.
	The ones I have in my collection are older books, so not sure how available they would be or if there's anything newer available.

* NMR Imaging in Biomedicine by Mansfield and Morris (1982) ISBN 0120255626
* NMR in Biomedicine: The Physical Basis (1989) ISBN 0883186039

The second one is actually a collection of seminal papers related to NMR and MRI that was published by AIP and is good for getting a more historical look at the development of NMR/MRI

There's also a Physics of MRI monograph from the 1992 AAPM Summer School (ISBN 1563962055).  This one is likely harder to find and you'd probably have to find a fairly well established Medical Physics Department or diagnostic medical physicist to get your hands on a copy.
