Post Title: Which MP track career is less stressful
Post Content: Considering  such as remote job, less paper work, part-time appointment, and less communication
Comments: 
My wife works in industry with a vendor for therapy physics software, and I work in the clinic. Vendor is the much less stressful one.
	Not that I’m as interested in the software vendor Side, but can I ask how that pays relative to the clinical role?
		Surprisingly, very comparably. It's a bit lighter than clinical, but within 5% for similar experience level at her company.
Goverment radiation safety. I know a few people who are fully remote at 130k+ with no residency or board shenanigans. Travel required some and obviously you can't walk into that salary band straight out of school but it's a good gig.

Consulting imaging *can* be stress free-ish. Depends on whether you are salaried or eat what you kill. I will say overall imaging seems way less stressful than therapy but that's my own view
Any job can be stressful depending on the institutions culture, a demanding and unrealistic boss, lack of equipment or support or MD’s who throw radiobiology as an excuse for a pt that needs to start stat, bad colleague’s who won’t pull their weight, office politics, egos,… just to name a few stressors. 
I cannot speak for our Diagnostic colleagues but Rad Therapy can be very demanding but also very rewarding. You are, at the end of the day, instrumental in improving the quality of life of patients indirectly. You get the joy of solving problems, implementing technology, learning something new every day, and seeing the beauty of physics in action. 
The job becomes a hobby that you get paid for. 
Don’t go into MP (diag or therapy) if you don’t want stress. 

You have to define stress: is it the day to day pressure of doing work or are you thinking of quality of life?

In RT, you work long hours, come in on some weekends, but over time you learn to balance home vs. work, and a supportive spouse is a must. 

My advice would be to shadow and talk to both Diagnostic and Therapy physicists. Do so while you’re still in school. Most of us are very honest about our career choices and can guide you towards the correct (perceived) less stressful path. 

Kindly
I would add, working for vendors can pay much less than working in a clinic. With a vendor a stressor can be layoffs, lots of travel to customer sites or conferences, the company not meeting expected earnings, company mergers or hostile takeovers…etc. 

Again, no job is without stress. Lucky are those who don’t have stressful jobs, but ultimately you need to identify and define what you consider stress. Each of us experiences stress differently based on our tolerances, experiences, education and abilities. 

Kindly.
Remote, but no paper work, and no communication?  Lol, what exactly do you want someone to pay you to do?  If you are working remotely, it's going to be mostly paperwork and communication.
	I meant considering based on each of these factors, not considering them collectively
Remote job is not something we know of here in France. Can someone explain what does it consist of please?
	we can do initial/weekly/final chart checks remotely, treatment planning and image registrations
		Thank you for answering. So there are remote job only? If so, that is I guess less stressful in the way that you don't have all the stress related to accelerator breakdowns, how to handle them etc
This job has low stress.

https://www.usajobs.gov/GetJob/ViewDetails/727027800
