Post Title: What is the shortes acceptable resignation notice period?
Post Content: 
Comments: 
Honestly, it's immediately or as little as your contract allows.

If you are in a bad situation (underpaid, overworked,  whatever) why would you give your employer anymore time than you absolutely have to? Your employer doesn't respect you so why would they expect your respect?

If you are in a good situation then give them as much time as you feel comfortable with. 2-3 months is a typical length in that situation.

Also, as a personal anecdote I know many people (myself included) who have given less than 1 month and are still physicists. I know a lot of physicians who have done the same. You will probably not work at your old institution ever again, and certainly you should not make a habit of ghosting jobs, but as a person and a worker you need to do what is best for you.
Assuming the reason you're leaving is because you don't think they've treated you well enough (or not paid you enough to keep you) I would just ask yourself how long do you think they would give you if they were to terminate your position? 

People here seem to be bending over backwards to not hurt their employers feelings, when in reality that level of respect would not be reciprocated if the situation was reversed. If you're not planning on returning to work there then a couple weeks notice is fine.
If they laid you off or terminated your position how long would they give you?
1/10th as long as you’ve been there up to 6 weeks seems pretty reasonable. If you’ve been there for a year then pretty much 6 weeks is a good notice for your clinic to unsuccessfully try to replace your position. 

This can also vary if there are an abundance of physicists and losing one won’t hurt much. You could probably shorten that to 3 weeks to 1 month in that case. 

Anything less you are making a statement. Statements are fine too, but (worst case) you may face consequences in future jobs where word gets out that you like to make statements. Most likely though you’ll be fine as long as you’re not breaking linacs and water tanks on your way out the door or making a scathing open letter post to Reddit with your personal information.
Depends on a couple of parameters. 

1. Would you ever consider working at this hospital/business again? If so give 4 weeks. If not, but you don’t want to make them really mad, give 2 weeks. If you have been mistreated and are in a bad situation, give an hour. 

2. Number 1 assumes you don’t have a contract specifying the minimum notice. 

3. Do you have another job lined up? If so, see #1.
In the US, 4-6 weeks is common.  In my experience, overwhelmingly people give 4 weeks.   

A lot of it comes down to the new position. Typically, they want you start tomorrow.  If they’ll wait extra time, then give notice farther in advance.  At the same time, you should factor in any moving time and relaxing time (no one wants you to start already burned out) that you may want to take.
Unless you’re in a contract it’s optional. Employers will always want you to give more time so they aren’t left short handed, but when they want to get rid of you they give you no notice.

I’d consider what they did to any of your former coworkers and match how they treated them.
I gave 6 weeks but a month is reasonable too. I would not give 2 weeks especially if you are the only physicist at a site or in the system
If multiple physicists work currently and you have a new contract signed, 2 weeks could be the shortest. I worked at a bs institution requiring 4 months notice written on the contract...
One rule of thumb is to give notice at least equal to the number of vacation days per year you are allotted.

I'm torn because I constantly see employers saying they need longer notice yet when the employer wants to get rid of someone they are ~~kicked~~ escorted out immediately.  In fact I've seen an employer request a longer notice period but as soon as the replacement was found the employee was terminated.  The employee actually happily took some time off between jobs and did some travel - something to consider.
There are several factors.  Do you want to work as a medical physicist again?  If not, just don't show up to work tomorrow.  If you do, then take a look at the situation where you are now.  Can they do without you for a time?  Would that put them at just reduced capacity or completely hault everything?  How long would it take them to replace you (this time of year, possibly not long, with all the recent grads finishing residencies).  How long to train someone to take over your role?  Do you need to train your replacement, or does someone else know your role well enough to train your replacement how to do it?  If you are on good terms with your boss, go to them and discuss an exit strategy and timeline that works well for both of you.
It depends. It’s longer than 2 weeks. If you are average staff I would allow at least 60 calendar days
I'd suggest 2 months if your situation allows it and everybody is on good terms.  I guess it depends on the group and how much grief being shorthanded will cause.  I work in a small group and wouldn't want to take a dump on my friends.
