Post Title: [Training Tuesday] - Weekly thread for questions about grad school, residency, and general career topics 05/30/2023
Post Content: This is the place to ask questions about graduate school, training programs, or general basic career topics. If you are just learning about the field and want to know if it is something you should explore, this thread is probably the correct place for those first few questions on your mind.

Examples: 

* "I majored in Surf Science and Technology in undergrad, is Medical Physics right for me?"
* "I can't decide between Biomedical Engineering and Medical Physics..."
* "Do Medical Physicists get free CT scans for life?"
* "Masters vs. PhD"
* "How do I prepare for Residency interviews?"
Comments: 
I just got accepted & will be starting grad school at Brown in the fall. I’ll be getting a masters but their PhD program will be starting when I graduate that I’m hoping to transition into. Does having a masters vs PhD make a difference in the job market? Is there anything you wish you knew prior to starting grad school?
	> Does having a masters vs PhD make a difference in the job market? Is there anything you wish you knew prior to starting grad school?

Yes, you need a PhD for a select few jobs, so theoretically the job market is better with a PhD. It's also beneficial for securing a promotion and/or residency.... but, would you really want to return to school for an additional 4-6 years just for marginally better career prospects?

I've met a lot of people with MS in Medical Physics who still had to do a full 5 years of PhD, so don't anticipate a "waiver" of 2 years or anything like that. If you're lucky, it trims off one year, but far from assumed. 

tl;dr IMO only do a PhD if you prefer academia over clinical work, or if it's an absolute must for you to be chief physicist of a top ranking university RadOnc/MedPhys department.
		Brown is supposed to open a PhD program as I’m finishing so I won’t have to do the first 2 years if I attend there. I’m not 100% certain if I want to stay in academia or not but I’m leaning towards not. It sounds like academia is the main selling point.
			Ah I see, that's relatively rare so I'm not familiar with any kind of in-house workings like that. It could be a good situation. You should also consider the financial implications. If you need to pay for 2 years of MS tuition, then still plan to do a PhD, that puts you at a significant financial disadvantage. If you don't have an offer for a PhD program and need time to feel out your future, then it sounds like this can be a great opportunity for you.
	Congrats! Not what you asked, but can I ask what your stats were? Gpa, letters of Rec, research, gre, et cetera?
		Thank you! I transferred to UC Berkeley (BA, Physics) from a community college (associates in math, physics, & econ).  I’m not sure exactly what my overall GPA is but it’s around 3.5 and my Berkeley GPA is 3.12. I had internships with NASA & Lawrence Livermore National Lab & have experience in the military. My letters of rec were from 2 scientists at Livermore & 1 professor in the nuclear engineering department at Berkeley. I was also really involved in the department when it came to mentoring & helping with the new transfers the year after me. My GRE was pretty average in both math & english.
			Ahh that’s fair. Your application is super impressive lol. Thanks for the response, hope all goes well at Brown!
				Thank you! I think I kind of got lucky with everything falling into place. I liked how Brown only required a personal statement as my statement of purpose wasn’t as strong. My grades aren’t super great so I think having a really strong essay and great letters of rec is what made my application stand out!
My program is aimed at radiation therapy physics and such, so now i'm wondering. What do diagnostic medical physicists do?

Is there anyway for international medical physics students to get certified? (Example: my country has no certification system for M.physicists)

What are the latest hot topics of research in therapeutic medial physics?
	Diagnostic medical physicists works on optimizing image protocols, performing acceptance/annual testings of radiological imaging units (CT, MRI, ultrasound...) and many other things in the realms of radiology and patient dose.

For certification in the US (ABR) you need to have a CAMPEP degree or get CAMPEP certification (takes 1yr I think) and then a Residency in a CAMPEP institution. So in your case, as an international student getting a degree outside of the US, you would have to do a certification and then residency. Can't answer last one as I am an Diagnostic MedPhys.
Question: I'm a college student going into my sophomore year who is majoring in physics. I really enjoy it and I think that medical physics is a very attractive prospective career field. Besides maintaining a high GPA and getting involved with lab and research opportunities when I can, what is the best way to set myself up for a competitive application to grad school?
	Honestly that sounds about right. GRE can be studied for in a short time, and the pGRE isn't necessary. Top off with good LORs and an intelligently written statement of purpose and you should have at least some acceptances. The SOP is pretty hard though so definitely spend time on that.
		Hey! Just for clarification, the SOP refers to the Statement of Purpose in the context of Medical Physics, right?
			Yes. For PhD admissions this is super important because this tells the faculty exactly what kind of research you want to do which will impact if they can actually accommodate you or not.
How family-friendly is medical physics as a career, generally speaking? I’m interested in the field, but apprehensive of the kind of hours I see doctors working- I want to prioritize my family. If this is a serious concern for me, is it better to be a self-employed contractor, or to have set hours as a medical center employee?
	It's as flexible as most white collar jobs - pretty good if you wanna be a run-of-the-mill average guy. Standard 40 hours/week, varies based on the clinic, might need to come in for a weekend QA every now and then but many places will comp you the hours back. If you wanna push the boundaries of the field or work at a "prestigious" location, you might be working longer hours. If you're vital to leadership/administration, it doesn't matter what your career is, it'll generally be hard to take time off.
	It's great for working hours. Normal 8-5 usually, no on-call, no weekends. Most doctor specialties do have long hours or call, but in that respect, radiation oncology seems pretty easy on hours for the docs too. One in a group might be on call. But an emergency case is extremely rare. I've only seen weekend emergency treatments for something like a cord compression about once a year. The treatment given for that is so straightforward that a physicist doesn't usually even get called for it.
	All of the physicists in my group (hospital based) have families, and equally importantly have the time to spend with them.
	It really depends on where you end up.  As far as radiation therapy:  

- In general, the hours are poor because much of your work is done after the clinic stops treating patients.  All clinics I’ve worked at treat 8-5, so the physics QA work doesn’t even get started until after hours.  

- Flexibility is mediocre.  Most sites will require you be there for special procedures.  If you’re at a busy clinic, that can make it extremely difficult to get away.  Also, since you’re not an MD, patients don’t really get scheduled around your schedule - you schedule around the MD.  

- I saw a workforce survey that showed physicists are the only RadOnc employees with a higher workload than physicians.  In my experience, that’s very true.   

- Depending on staffing, you may be on call 24/7.  I have friends that are solo physicists.  They get calls at 6:30AM when the machine breaks down and they’re working on the machine with the engineer at 11PM.   


Now all that being said, there are some really nice positions available.  I know people working 8-4:15PM with a lunch, others working remotely and some physicists working 4 day weeks, so it is definitely possible. They’re just really hard to find.
I am getting my bachelors in electrical engineering and want to pursue medical physics.  If anyone became a medical physicist with a non physics background, information on how you did so would be greatly appreciated!
	Electrical engineering is close enough that you'll understand the core concepts, very normal in our field. You'll just need to learn some very elementary biology during your grad courses. This isn't as unique of a situation as it may seem, so my recommendation is generic: Complete all of the pre-requisite classes (CAMPEP requirements), do well on the GRE and gain research experience (preferably in med phys) before you graduate.
		Thank you for your response.  I am not sure if I will be able to complete the CAMPEP required courses and still graduate on time so I was looking at the option of getting a masters and PhD in nuclear engineering, because I plan to get a doctorate anyways, then getting a CAMPEP certificate.  Do you know if it is easier to transfer over once one has a doctorate.
			In my opinion, this path limits your options because there are less certificate programs than there are graduate programs. There's absolutely nothing wrong with this path from an educational perspective, but it's inefficient. You wouldn't use much of your nuclear engineering experience, and you'd have completed an entire PhD in an unrelated field... that's a lot of work for something that you may not even *want* to end up doing!

How many required courses are you missing? I'd generally not recommend this to others, but given your major, you can try contacting & applying to MP programs and ask them if they'd allow you to take the missing classes during graduate school. This is allowed per CAMPEP policy, but it's a lot of work to juggle. Still better than the alternative, at least to me.
I'm few years into a PhD program in Medical Physics, graduated with my MS a few years ago, passed part  1, have two first authorships and a few co-authorships, and have a few years of work experience with physics and dosimetry at a decent hospital near me. However, I think it's unlikely that I'll be able to finish my dissertation by this time next year so that I can be a PhD applicant rather than just an MS applicant. I was initially planning on finishing, but I've run into some issues with my work and think it's unlikely that I finish in time. I also don't really think I can mentally put myself through an additional year of school.

All that said, how large of a detriment to the rest of my application would it be to have started a PhD. but not finished?
	Not a great look but not end of the world. It would hurt you in some regards. However, it would probably help your career in Medical Physics to continue on for your PhD. Monetarily it will eventually even out, but the opportunities you’ll have will be much greater with a PhD. 

Additionally, if you just miss out on the application, and get your PhD a few months later, you may not have to wait a whole year for a residency if you can find one that is outside the match. Or you may be able to do a short post doc. Or just work as a MPA and get paid and get extra experience and really solidify your chances in the match. 

If it’s just a year or two I would try and find some hint of motivation to finish. Three years or more…then it might be time to consider just a Masters if you’re really struggling.
		Unfortunate to hear, but thank you. Sometimes, it feels incredibly difficult to push through. I have who just got into residency, are in residency, or have already finished, but I'll be fortunate to get to start next year. Regarding those outside the match, do you know of a comprehensive list? I occasionally stumble upon such programs, but it's much harder to find them.
			There will be a job posting either on the aapm or indeed or something. You can always put a message out here too saying you are looking.
				That's reassuring, thank you!
	This sounds like a unique circumstance. IMO, quitting now would be a major regret. You'll never be able to just pick up where you left off, so you're essentially terminating any chance of significant career growth for life unless you go back for a new degree or restart the MP PhD. Furthermore, it'll impact the recommendation of your advisor(s) and affiliated staff for the rest of your life. 

While I can't speak for every department, I suspect that terminating your PhD progress would look bad in residency apps as well - there's a societal stigma against those who quit something, your recommendations are weaker, and you're going to be locked out of a few places just by virtue of lacking the PhD. 

All that being said, you can justify/sweet talk your way out of anything if phrased properly... so if it's critical to your mental well-being that you drop out, don't let anyone dissuade you. Try to be objective, maybe consult with a mental health professional if you feel comfortable with that, especially before a big change - your grad school should have something.
		Thank you for that. I think the negatives associated with it far outweigh the benefits of starting a residency at most a year sooner. I'll try to bite the bullet and consider other possibilities, including what nutrap mentioned.
General question - how is the job market as of late? 

I live and plan to stay in the Detroit metro area thanks!
	take a browse through the AAPM Career Services job board

https://careers.aapm.org/
		There was one job in my state *nervous laugh*
			Something to note is that the AAPM job boards are pretty expensive to post to so hospitals usually only leave jobs up there for a short time. If you go to Indeed you’ll see there are currently 12 therapy physicist jobs and 1 diagnostic physicist job open in Michigan.
			Yea. That’s not bad. You have to take into account there aren’t many positions but also not many candidates to fill the position. If you’re looking to stay in a very small radius (less than 30 miles) it may be challenging to find a position unless you live in a very big city (maybe even bigger than Detroit). But if you open it up to the state level or even surrounding states it’s probably easy to find a job. It may not be available right away but typically within a two year span one will come up. Right now though the market is hot for candidates. Jobs stay open for 6 months to 2 years.
				Thanks for the info this is the kinda thing I was looking to learn more about, I appreciate that
