Post Title: Salary & Work-Life Balance - Clinical MP, Consulting MP, Industry MP
Post Content: Hi all! Aspiring MP here.

I'm always looking to the future, and I cannot wait to start my career as a medical physicist. I am curious about the differences in day-to-day activities as a clinical MP, a consulting MP, and an industry MP, especially in regards to work-life-balance and salary.

For reference, I am within a year of obtaining my PhD, and am aware of the AAPM professional survey. Which of these three tracks has the best work-to-life balance and overall salary? Trying to see all possible options.

Looking forward to your responses, thank you again, and have a great day!
Comments: 
So much variation in clinical settings. You can be in a small center that only treats 20pt/day and finishes up by 2pm, and only be there 30 hours/week but get paid for 40, or be in a busy center that's understaffed and be putting in 60 hours/week but still only paid for 40. Funny thing is, the guy in the small center might even have the higher salary.
	Generally the smaller the clinic the higher the pay. Supply and demand. Many physicists don't like small centers
This is totally an opinion and not based off anything other than my perception. As in virtually everything else in life, the answers below will depend on the individual situation. 

Work-Life Balance
#1 Industry
#2 Consulting Group (depends on environment)
#3 Hospital/Clinical

It’s my perception that industry may be a bit more forgiving than your typical hospital or consulting group. While there may be some hectic times, neither the hospital nor cg seems to be all that interested in your “happiness”. However, there probably are groups and even some hospitals that are the benefit of happy employees but I don’t think that’s the norm. They are more concerned about the $, and I don’t mean that in a bad way. It is what it is. 

Salary
#1 Consulting Group, especially if you own it
#2 Hospital/Clinical
#3 Industry 

If you work for a good group, or even own one, I believe the pay is better. Hospitals in general are pretty good with pay. Industry, at least how I’ve seen it, is a bit behind. 

But you would sort of expect the above. Salary and WLB are kind of inversely related much of the time. You get one at the expense of the other. There are the golden unicorns that provide both. But those are very rare.
	Based on my experience, I'd agree with the work/life part, and slightly disagree about the pay. Small sample size, but every clinical physicist I know that has jumped ship to industry, especially the ones that go to Varian, make more money than the people I know at hospitals.
		What are you defining as industry? In the short term Varian is paying physicists more to provide clinical services to hospitals, part of that pay is travel requirements, in the long term I'd imagine they pay less after building the country's largest physics group. I've heard some big numbers in terms of how many they want to hire from clinics to being under Varian.
			In my head I was defining industry as nonclinical. I guess with Varian that does get a little blurry. I was referring to physicist who went into Varian marketing or support or similar roles. Traveling to shows may still be required but it can mostly me a remote WFH job.
				Varian Clinical is clinical but hired by an industry partner. I consider industry as a Sun Nuclear job or RadFormation.
			What numbers have you heard?  I'm...concerned about this development.
		I was going to get a pay decrease going to Varian
			Guess it all depends on your situation. I know people who had a $225k starting salary there, not including bonuses. That beats anything in the clinics around me other than chiefs.
				I am a chief and RSO so there’s that, lol. Def depends on where u are at
				Still, I consider Varian a clinical job.
					Their CTSI job or whatever it's called, sure. But they have lots of physicist jobs that never see a clinic, too. I'd go as far as to argue that some of the DABR folks at Sun Nuclear are more clinical than some of the physicists I know working at Varian.
						I disagree wrt to Sun Nuclear type employees being a clinical position. Talking to people in a clinic doesn’t make you clinical. Your primary responsibility is the company. They aren’t touching patients or charts or delivery devices used in patients on a daily basis. They aren’t responsible for patients. I don’t think they are clinical. That doesn’t discount their jobs or their importance to the community. But they aren’t clinical personnel
							This is getting pretty far into the weeds.... I didn't say SN folks were in a clinical position, I said that it could be argued that they are more clinical than some Varian folks. I'd argue that by saying that sometimes stepping foot into a clinic, sometimes using a LINAC, etc, is like having a foot in the clinical door still. Which makes someone more clinical than otherwise. 

But my main point was that there are definitely lots of completely non-clinical Varian jobs for DABRs.
								Ha. No worries. Yeah we’ve beat this horse dead
	Interesting! I thought industry pays more as I saw a few people move from academic centers to industry.
		I’m not necessarily including Academic centers as purely clinical.
		Academic typically pays less than anything else, at least if it's clinical academic.
	This lines up with my experience and knowledge, which are to some degree secondhand when it comes to industry. 

That said I’d add in the caveat that a clinical job *can* fall anywhere on the work life balance spectrum. I’ve been in clinics where Walmart greeters probably were doing better than me on an hourly basis and I’ve been in clinics where burning the midnight oil meant putting in 35 hour weeks.
The chiller will find you no matter where you hide.
If you are a member of the AAPM you can access the salary survey.
