Post Title: Experienced Physicist Salary Question
Post Content: Are there any US physicists on here with 5-10+ years of experience that have changed jobs in the last year or two willing to share their salary?  

I've just over a decade of experience and am board certified.  The 2021 salary survey for says the median and average for someone with my background (MS) and experience is around $205k and $209k, respectively.  This is a bit higher than what I make currently, and it's from 2 years ago.

I've read on here at there are physicists coming out of residency pushing $200k.  

I am thinking of testing the market, and it would be useful to have more up to date data.  Thanks!
Comments: 
I make 200k in a decent sized city living in the midwest. I am board certified and have 2 years of experience outside residency. You should test the market.
	So that would count as 4 years of experience for HR. Thank you for sharing!
	Big oof to Canada.
	How many hours a week do you work on average?
		40-45 hrs per week
			Was it always like this, or is this based on your current job?  How was residency?
				Hours are consistent and this is based on current position. Residency hours ranged from 40-60 hrs per week.
Anecdotally, I was making about $235k in a medium cost of living area (with lots of experience).  Was about to get a raise to $250kish, but moved to a slightly lower paying but significantly better work-life balance position. 

I heard my replacement was making in the $270ish range.
	Roughly how many years of experience do you have?
I'm waiting for the 2022 salary survey to come out, but I am also looking at my own situation.  I think my employer owes me a raise, especially since I haven't had one since 2021, when I first got board certified.  Inflation is killing my monthly budget and I'm thinking I need at least a 10% raise to keep up.  Right now I'm not far off the figure you quoted, but I'm contract and have no benefits.
	[deleted]
		you are being shortchanged imo, he is just getting mugged.
	So what amount are you at? Hard to know if you're getting shortchanged without a number. My facility gave us all a 5% raise after a physicist left (in addition to our yearly 3%) as a retention incentive after they learned what the physicist's new salary would be. The market has moved a LOT in the past three years.
I am 3 years post residency, and I make 200k FTE, although I only work .8 FTE so actually make 160k. But that extra day off every week is amazing.
	How many hours do you work on the other days?  I agree that a day is worth it.
		Pretty good about sticking to 8-9 hours. We are commissioning a new truebeam currently so the hours are a little weird but we all like working here for the balance and so we are all pretty good about sticking to appropriate number of hours usually.
			How was work-life balance during residency?
				Haha not good during residency. But that's what residency is for, to work really hard for a couple years so you are ready to be an independent physicist. Prioritizing balance comes after residency, in my mind.
[deleted]
	Are you in a LCOL living area?  I hope you get a BIG raise soon.  

I don’t think your numbers are outrageously low, but inflation and demand has led to a big increase for those moving to new jobs. I’ve seen a number advertised for around $300k.
		No, not in a LCOL area. My institutions raises are pathetic. The problem is I don't want to move to another state to chase money.
			That’s completely fair - some things are worth more than money.
	IMHO the salaries vary significantly and not even just geographically but hospital to hospital. Really all depends on how physics is setup in the clinic. Is it just a checkmark position to do the bare legal minimum at a small hospital, don't expect much. Are you in a large physician group / private hospital where physics is fully integrated into everything including special procedures, likely you are irreplaceable and should be paid as such.
	How long have you been at your current position?
	How many hours a week do you work on average?
3.5 years out of residency, and I make ~$205k total comp in a LCOL/MCOL midwestern city, working full time at an academic institution. I had to bring in an outside offer to obtain a raise to this level.
	How many hours a week do you work on average?
		50-55 h/wk
10-15 years experience, was offered 250k about 6 months ago from a competitor across town. I declined in favor of the tremendous work-life balance of my current job.
	Mind sharing what you currently make (DM is fine if you don't want that info to be public)?
There's more to it than salary. Work-life balance, good environment, location, benefits, clinical equipment, availability of additional work/compensation, etc..

Generally, just the opportunity to negotiate a salary will benefit someone who is willing to move.
Alternatively the cost of changing positions/locations can easily eat a year or two of the possible salary gains depending on what you have in your life.

...
Also reporting bias. Definitely reddit reporting bias. Everyone makes $200k right out of residency on reddit.
	Right? The number of brand new resident graduates on Reddit making more than every physicist in my department is absurd. They all need to report those numbers on the salary survey so we can all use that info for negotiations.
		Companies have no incentive to raise salary for people that have been there for years. They know you won't leave. This data already shown in the salary survey based on the "switching jobs" charts
		To be fair, if you’ve been at your clinic more than a couple of years, then your salary has decreased something like 15-20% with inflation.   

If you hired on at say $180k, a new hire would expect $210ish just to be paid comparably to your initial salary.
			I'm very aware of inflation recently. But a new hire cannot expect $210k at my particular clinic because that would be more than every physicist except the director of physics. The numbers in this thread are waaaay above what the salary survey says, which I'm more inclined to believe.
				[deleted]
					[deleted]
						[deleted]
							Ours is not. Work/life balance is great. I would trade a little bit of it for money but that trade off will never be perfect I suppose.
I got $200k out of residency without DABR, albeit in the outskirts of a stereotypically expensive city. Time for you to look.
	How many hours a week do you work on average?
		45 or so
Got my first post-residency job at my current center on the west coast early 2020, $148k/year. Now I'm at the same place making $219k/year.

I typically get two \~3% raises per year, but I got a couple much bigger bumps after passing each ABR 2 and 3.

(PS: We are hiring right now and the current posted range is $170k-$250k)
	Wow - 3 years post residency and you're already ~75% through what I would presume to be your salary band.  Thx for the info.  Feel free to DM a link to the position
	Is this the posting near Napa valley?
ITT I feel like either I'm grossly behind on salary adjustments or everyone else in here is well above the curve.
	Have you job hopped recently?
	[deleted]
		It's probably not bullshit, it's just natural self-report bias. The top quartile are going to feel proud, and want to post about it.
		It's a phenomenon that I think has only really happened in the last year or 2, so I think it actually will start showing up on the survey soon (unless everyone really is full of shit, but I know people that actually have gotten that much out of residency).

With the amount of open jobs and the residency bottle neck, it only  makes sense salaries are going to increase. It's simple supply and demand.
			[deleted]
				Are you new to the Internet or American capitalism? 

1.People are more likely to post their higher than average income on the Internet than people below average.


2 . Don't expect any raise above 3% unless you quit. If anything the longer you stay the more it validates to them that you aren't going anywhere.

For every grad I know, I know a physicist who's spent a significant amount of their life at a single clinic. There's really no capitalistic incentive for them to walk into your office and give you a raise.
				> I would expect these increases being concentrated in the 10+ yrs group.  

1. They have seen a massive bump, if that’s helpful. For example, Varian now lists greater than $300k on their salary for even non-chief positions. Anecdotally, I had a recruiter contact me for a nearly $300k job in a very LCOL area.  Just a few years ago, that was unheard of and extremely uncommon for even the toughest chief jobs.   

2.  I don’t know what new grads make, but with the medical physics “shortage”, I wouldn’t be surprised if it hadn’t increased considerably.
There is a huge correction that is coming. In response to the ever increasing salaries institutions will;

1) start more residency programs to keep labor costs down

2) hire more MPAs

3) invest in productivity software to get more out of the people they have 

Job hop while you can. This boom will not last forever
	1. CAMPEP has no incentive to do that. If anything hospitals will just start ignoring or campaigning for needing fewer QMPs or the legitimization of a different body, but physics is small and may be able to fly under the radar. 
2. Idk about you but MPA work is like 20% of the job imo.
3. I also don’t know about your clinic but every productivity software we’ve implemented has needed a clinical manager and it has been very time intensive for the physicist that owns it. The spread of these technologies could just as easily increase physics demand while they slash other jobs. There’s simply not enough money to be made in radonc to make seamless software.
Fresh residency grad here (in a few months). I had 5-7 offers between 160-185 with guaranteed board bumps of usually 20k (some were written into the offer and some were on a handshake) and with signing bonuses between 0-15k. Just as a data point.
	Hi @ilovematchanxiety! If you don’t mind sharing, are these clinics on the east or west coast? Large, mid, small sized/any other general details would be appreciated
Have you been at the same facility this whole time? You're just not going to make market salary unless you move a couple times. Most facilities have their bureaucracy and only give 2-3%/year. As long as you're there, they have no impetus to change. If you look at the salary increases for people who changed jobs it's usually a 10-15% jump. That's like 5 years worth of pay raises. To answer your question. I was most recently at about 217k with full benefits with 10+ years experience. Not a LCOL city, but not a super-high COL city on the coast either. After seeing a lot of these posts, I'm thinking I was underpaid at 217k, but it's hard to complain because it's still a very comfortable salary and I was in a very nice place to live.

EDIT: I don't mean to make the hospital administration look like they're purposefully being stingy. If they haven't needed to hire a physicist in a few years, then they're probably not aware of how much the market has moved. A lot of us in this thread are surprised at how much salaries have increased.
	Yes, I have been with the same group since I completed my residency.  I'm in a MCOL area, so thx for the data point.  And that's amazing that you're making that much doing locums...if I didn't have a family, it's something I'd consider.
		Yeah, it's not for everyone. I wouldn't do it if I had a young family, but the kids are grown and living out of state anyway. If I had known how much it paid I would have started doing it a few years earlier though.
			Also high risk, I've been unable to find anything the past 3 months. Any suggestions? I think hospitals are just going the skeleton crew route.
				Are you boarded? Worth it to get TX and FL licenses. They always seem to need people. Sign up with a few agencies.
Residency bottleneck is driving the market right now. It would astonish me to hear that people fresh out of residency are getting $200k; I am making a considerable amount less than that right now (like $160k), but I have no intention of leaving my job so it's just something I have come to terms with. My location is super low stress and the staff is great, which actually does make up the 25% I am missing when I can actually enjoy my day to day life. My buddy had an opportunity to leave his job though in a super low cost of living area and negotiated for a pay bump to a little over $200k though. We are both at about 6 years experience now.
	I do love everything about my job other than pay, so I wouldn't leave for just a 10% increase, but if 20-30% (or even more) is possible and the new clinic doesn't seem like a nightmare, that could sway me.
		That's fair; I'm more of a devil you know kind of person, except in my position it's more like an angel haha. I think in most situations the clinics you are applying to will always hide some level of information. I literally can't imagine any clinic would be indentical to my situation now, so that's why I am comfortable with the financial difference.
	Oh and I should add that I have a friend who was making low $160s with a few more years experience than you...they were in a great clinic but left for a 20% pay jump.
		Did your friend go to a place where there is 3+ physicists?
			The clinic has one other physicist, but is part of a system with tons of others
				depending on number of machines at that site with the one other physicist and the total number of machines across the system, that could potentially drive that difference along with the workload for that site and across the system. This is just the kind of stuff I have heard from these types of negotiations with regards to salary
Test the market
Tfw not a therapy physicist :(
Alot of it is the supply and demand in the area. If you have a hospital that cannot find a physicist for a long time and stuck paying expensive locums they may be more willing to pay.

I make 275k due to that reason. I have 13 years of experience. I already had a job saw that another clinic was a cluster so I applied told that what it would take to hire me and clean up department. Eventually they agreed. They were still running aria and eclipse 11 and had paper charts etc.
That's low, but everyone is in different situations. I would do some calls and see if there is a position that you think is better for other reasons. If you get an offer that is better for you and has more money, then you can talk to your employer about it. Come from a position of strength. 

I have similar experience and make more, but I'm also very good. The reality is there is a premium for physicists who physicians can trust. I wouldn't, and don't, chase money around.
	Work/life balance is good, which is why I haven't "chased money around."  But I think it might be time.  My organization says they are constantly doing market analyses and will make adjustments if necessary. However, there's been no turnover in my group, so I'm guessing that's why they haven't felt the need
		My work/life balance is good too. By getting another offer, you will be contributing to their market analysis and probably helping out the other physicists in your group. No company is out there searching for people to give raises to
I'm in a Midwest city with 3 main job possibilities in my area. I had one, I had an offer from another, and I took a new job with the third. Salaries were $180k, $190k, and $195k. Five years experience and ABR. The chief position at the one I left was making $220k. 

I'm also seeing people mentioning "total comp." What kind of additional compensation are some of you getting?
	Thanks for the info.  Did you negotiate those offers higher?  Nevertheless, your current salary is still higher than mine and I've got over 5 years of additional experience.

As for total comp, for me, the only extra comp I sometimes get is if I sell my PTO at 90% of the value.
		I negotiated my previous job up from $165k to $180k in 2022, then got a blanket all-staff adjustment in the same year. I negotiated my new job because their original offer was the same as the job I was at.

Pretty much all of my friends in the field have been looking for jobs and/or raises over the past year.  Other than a couple of outliers in Florida, I haven't heard anyone in my experience level getting anything north of $200k. Apparently they're out there, but I don't know where.
			[deleted]
				Is that one of their "remote/travel" jobs or one of their full time in-person jobs? $295k is nuts.
	Some hospitals give annual bonus.
To help even out the “fresh out of residency” reporting bias…

Two residents I know have accepted offers for $146k and $158k, resp., both going to LCOL areas. Another accepted $172k in a moderate-high COL area. Board bump $30k for all of em.

Others I know are demanding $190k+ in moderate COL areas but negotiations are ongoing, last I heard. It depends on location, but it seems they have to jump through a few more hoops to hit that $190-200k number.
	Those three are at an average of $190k one year post-residency (assuming they pass boards the first go).  That's basically where I was with almost a decade out of residency.
		Dang. It’s where I’m at now at almost 10 years out of residency.
