Post Title: Does anyone here have a hybrid WFH schedule?
Post Content: This is something I’m trying to push for but I am facing some backlash. 

My clinic is adequately staffed and could easily handle having some number of physicists working remotely some number of days per week. 

I figured COVID would have made hybrid models more popular, but it seems to be something my department leadership won’t go for. I’ve heard a bunch of different reasons but none of them are particularly convincing to me. 

Has the job market as a whole come to accept some amount of remote work? Is this insistence upon five day a week in person work still the prevailing mindset? I’ve given a bunch of different reasons but it seems like we’d be pulling teeth just to get to a day a week.
Comments: 
We are 1 physicist short of being able to pull off a hybrid model approach. We would have the at home physicist check charts, weeklies and initials. They would do that for the week and be in office 2 or 3 weeks in a row. 

I did hear about a few places that went remote when COVID hit. One of the physicists wasn't pulling his fair share of the work or was unresponsive to emails and/or calls so the chief shut it down.
	Why is it always 1 guy ruining it for everyone? lol
I am a clinical physicist (therapy) and I have full discretion to work from home whenever I like. All of our institutional meetings are held virtually and we have robust CITRIX-based access to all of our RadOnc applications and our EHR, and IT set us up with software that forwards all of our office calls to software on our PC so that we can continue fielding work calls from home without interruption.

I fully work from home 2-3 days per week. It is an extremely nice perk and there really isn't an amount of money that would get me back into a fully on-site position again at this point.
	People still make phone calls?
		Do your therapists not find a reason to call you with some question prior to one third of patient starts?
			> have full discretion to work from home whenever I like. All of our institutional meetings are held virtually and we have robust CITRIX-based access to all of our RadOnc applications and our EHR, and IT set us up with software that forwards all of our office calls to software on our PC so that we can continue fielding work calls from home without interruption.  
>  
>I fully work from home 2-3 days per week. It is an extremely nice perk and there really isn't an amount of money that would get me back into a fully on-site position again at this point.

i'm curious if this is formalize or not. When you're not there is there another physicist covering SBRT etc?
				> i'm curious if this is formalize or not. When you're not there is there another physicist covering SBRT etc?

Our group still provides on-site coverage to all special procedures, and that coverage is coordinated amongst the physics team in an equitable fashion. We used to maintain a formal written schedule of who is on site and who is home but department leadership trusts our group to get the work done according to best practices without micromanagement so we keep it relatively informal these days.
				Think you replied to the wrong comment just heads up
					thanks saw that after i replied!
Yes. I'm on site 3.5 days, off site 1.5 (one regular day, one biweekly split with the other physicist). Small, one machine clinic. Two physicists, one dosimetrist. The dosimetrist has two days off site regularly. Works quite well for us at least.
	You have two physicists for a small one machine clinic?  Nice.  How many patients per day?
		Well, I should rephrase... It's a two machine clinic with an old decommissioned 21ex that we'll be swapping out for a TB this year. Just one active at the moment. We tend to bounce between 30-40 patients these days
just my 2c but from my experience I would probably be pushing back too against anything more than maybe 1 day a week or even every 2 weeks.

most of the routine work can be done from home, sure, but i view the majority of our real value as being the ability to problem solve on demand.

a lot of the informal consultations on planning, etc just doesn't happen as efficiently when you aren't together with your dosimetrists.

not to mention troubleshooting machine issues / return to service QA and stuff.

probably depends on your department personalities more than anything. I know some of my coworkers would be totally inaccessible from home. 

I mean, I would love to have a day a week too but if i'm being honest it's because I could get most of my checking done in a few hours and only respond to emails for the rest of the day, so not exactly a noble cause.
	> a lot of the informal consultations on planning, etc just doesn't happen as efficiently when you aren't together with your dosimetrists.

This is solvable with a mindset change. We haven't had a dosimetrist physically on site since COVID started, but we have a robust implementation of productivity and collaboration tools that let them efficiently connect with anyone else on the team. When I am needed by a dosimetrist or physician we can be in a virtual meeting in < 30 seconds where we can chat while I see and control their screen. Works great, and is equitable to all of our geographically separated team members.

> not to mention troubleshooting machine issues / return to service QA and stuff.

Machine issues (ones that aren't just a matter of rebooting something, which can be coordinated from anywhere) are largely the domain of our engineering group. For post-service QA, we essentially always have sufficient heads up about issues to make the drive in to the clinic if we are working from home.
		I don't disagree with you - hence my comment about it depending on your department. old dogs and new tricks and all that.
	I don’t really want to get too into it but this is actually exactly why the rest of us are pushing for this. We have a physicist who is fully remote and is allowed to do noticeably less before you even get into their obvious lack of involvement in day to day clinical stressors. It’s just immensely insulting.
		that seems extremely inequitable.
			I can’t even begin to describe the arrangement, no logical person would say it is okay.
				That person needs to be put on a performance improvement plan to either straighten out that disparity or to begin proceedings for termination. That simply shouldn’t be tolerated by anyone.
					I’ve unfortunately come to accept that it isn’t going to happen so I’ll need to take my own initiative to get into a more equitable situation.

Given that I have dual citizenship, I am actually thinking of looking into heading back to my home country to practice. The pay cut would suck but they seem to be a lot more modern in their work culture there. It’s been decades since I’ve been in Sweden for more than a few weeks but I am heavily looking at the possibility of anyone knows more.
I work hybrid. I'm not as effective when I'm home. I think that's fine though. Overall everything gets done on time and with high quality. Working from home can be about job satisfaction/retention.
I’m a solo physicist at a relatively busy rural clinic. I work from home at my discretion, for example if i have an appointment that day, if the weather is bad, or if we hit a slow period. I’m mostly in the office by choice though. As others have said, there are always things that pop up with the machine or other systems, and I live 50 miles from the clinic so I can’t just pop in when something happens.
Therapy physicist, here. I’m surprised by all of the wfh ability presented here. Our admin is vehemently against it, partially because they micromanaging, dictators who are fearful of not being in direct control of every employee, but I digress. It gives me hope.
One of our physicists proposed a hybrid model during COVID. Surprisingly, the rest of our physics group shot it down. We found that the on-site physicist(s) were disproportionately busy relative to the WFH physicist(s).

And then if a machine went down or other issues came up, it would become even more difficult since you can’t troubleshoot machine issues very effectively from home.

Personally I prefer going to work anyway. I enjoy the interactions with my coworkers and I find myself more efficient when I’m physically at work.
	The idea is that it would be a fair rotation among everybody. Hybrid, 4 day weeks, etc are so much better than the current standard, I've experienced it and I'd rather get paid less if I could do it over again.
		I think some of this depends on your typical work week, hours worked, work/life balance, etc.

For me, I rarely have to put in 40 hours, so being on site isn’t a huge deal. If I was working 50-60 hour weeks, you bet I’d be all for a hybrid WFH setup.
	That’s a good point. There has to be clear expectations of the people at home.  It won’t work if everyone on site is crazy busy while one person is assumed to be at home doing nothing.  Sounds obvious but it won’t just automatically work unless everyone is clear on what the home people will be doing. 
On a side note, it occurs to me that wfh will become more expected from people we hire in the future. We may need to flexible to peoples needs or we won’t be able to hire anyone in this competitive environment. However, I’m a believer of the medphys 3.0 philosophy so working from home could reduce our ability to be seen in the department and be active with patients.
		Hiring has been an issue for us, particularly dosimetry. We are in an expensive area of the west coast and we are trying to find two dosimetrists and every candidate seems to be adamant on being remote. 

I fully agree they can be, but admin refuses to even acknowledge the possibility, and then the candidate ends up taking a remote gig that multiple competitors are offering.
			Yes, this is/was a swiftly occurring change. We don't even keep office space for dosimetrists anymore.
				Yeah and now our current dosimetrists have gotten wind of this. It’s a really shitty situation because we will undoubtedly lose physics and dosimetry staff this year if things don’t change.
	> We found that the on-site physicist(s) were disproportionately busy relative to the WFH physicist(s).

same
We've always allowed people to WFH if needed - within reason.  We have residents, so someone needs to be at work for them.  Before Covid, our office dynamic was that nearly everyone was in the office 5 days most weeks.  After Covid, our office dynamic is that nearly everyone is in the office 4 days most weeks.  Those with children often work from home if a kid is sick or daycare falls through.  Everyone works from home when the basement floods or whatever home emergency that needs them to monitor repair personnel.  Part of the reason that we strive for at least 4 days most weeks is because our administrative associate is only allowed to work from home 1 day per week.
