Post Title: Why the push for graduating residents to get a job by Jan/Feb if not graduating until July?
Post Content: See title. This has always confused me.

Between grad school and my current residency, I have noticed this trend of pushing residents in their final year to apply to places by Oct/Nov/Dec of the year prior to graduation, interview Dec/Jan/Feb, and have a contract signed by February, March at the latest, and if they don't that they're an undesirable candidate who won't get hired anywhere. But the job market is in shambles right now, and places are hiring for immediate coverage. I am graduating this year, and of the places I've interviewed at so far, two of them have already expressed disdain at the fact that I'm not graduating until July, because they need help immediately. Heck, I'm barely even comfortable interviewing as is, because I haven't gained all the skills I'm going to learn by the time I graduate. It feels super awkward putting clinical skills on my CV that I'm *going* to have in four months, but don't have yet. Where does this rush-to-get-hired mentality come from, and is there any merit to it that I'm not seeing?
Comments: 
Who wouldn't want employment lined up early before graduation?  It's a nice stress relief to check off job search while simultaneously finishing residency and preparing for boards.  I started applying in Jan and had my job accepted by March for a July start post-graduation.

> two of them have already expressed disdain at the fact that I'm not graduating until July

I get that, but also, due to staffing shortages and desire for good candidates, our institution has offered to RadOncs with nearly 1 year of residency left.  Just to place someone we like who wants to work with us.  We would likely do the same if we had that need for a physicist and had a good applicant.
I think it's cuz there are so many openings now and not enough residency graduates. We'd love to wait 6 months for someone if that means filling the position. And it's pretty normal in all other health fields

Yeah of course I need help right now. But I needed help 6 months ago too, what's another 6 months of waiting. This is the life of a medical physicist at the moment. 

These places that expressed disdain- I bet if the don't fill in the next two months which is likely,  they'll be reaching out to you again willing to wait until July
	Also- I got my job in October and I had 3 offers. There are so many places willing to wait so just keep looking and be yourself. Interviewing can also be fun!
		[deleted]
			Our residents got offers in the 170-180k range this year. Teh highest offer i got was 177 and the lowest was 155 with guaranteed board bumps
				Sorry I’m an undergrad biophysics major gonna be applying to medical physics for this upcoming fall term. So idk everything when it comes to this. But after you complete your 2 year residency which is after your 2 years maters program, those are the job offers your expected to get without being board-certified?
					Yes you start working without being board certified. That process takes at minimum another year after residency.
			$150k I think
				…for therapy.  MS/PhD w/ pulse
Don’t forget that some academic positions take months to go through all the required steps to get someone hired.
	I became faculty at the place I did my residency and I wasn’t able to start working until nearly August despite the hiring process starting in February.
I'll seriously send you $100 if you show me anyone here who's said you are undesirable if you can't find a job 6+ months out. You are having a 1 sided argument about your own insecurity and now you are feeling relieved. 

I wouldn't call it a push, people just like to brag about it especially when in other professions it can take months to find a job.
We aren’t pushing anyone in our program to get jobs. The demand is simply so great that they are getting positions lined up earlier and earlier.

What bugs me is the residents who check out of training once they’ve got a job lined up, so while it isn’t going to happen, I sort of wish employers weren’t recruiting current residents until later in their second years.
I don't think waiting would make you undesirable, but you may miss out on better opportunities if you wait.

If you think about it, job openings happen year round. But residencies only typically end in July. So if a job opening starts in October, maybe they can have extra coverage for a few months to make it an easier transition. Or if the opening is in May, they can hire a locum until the graduating resident arrives. 

Our company intentionally started a 6 month staggered residency position(ends in Dec) to fill new grad needs during the winter months. Those that graduate from that position are not competing with the other hundred grads in July.
Even in undergrad engineering programs, employment fairs and interviews are happening in Jan/Feb or earlier for May graduates. It's normal to have a job lined up before you graduate in any desirable field.
