Post Title: Update: Experienced Physicist Salary Question
Post Content: About two months ago, I made a post that I had around 10 years of experience and was making quite a bit under the 2021 salary survey for someone with my qualifications/experience.  

I took everyone's advice and tested the market.  There were several openings in my area, and I applied to three (all of which had been posted since late last year).  

The first was looking to hire/pay a junior level physicist and was eliminated quickly.  The second - interview went great, and HR called after wanting to prepare an offer.  When we discussed pay, I asked for the salary range for the position and was given an absurdly low range.  They said they'd do a market analysis and get back to me (they never did). 

I waited a few weeks before applying to the third site, thinking it wouldn't take too long for #2 to get back with the updated pay scale.  Things progressed quite quickly with them, and I got an offer for **$230k**.  Solo site but with a low caseload (<20pts/day) and a great staff.  Only issue is it would've added about 2hrs of commute time each week.

I took my offer to my manager and after some negotiating, they ended up matching, so I'm staying put!  Thanks everyone for the advice and hopefully this can help anyone else who is in a similar position.
Comments: 
Congrats! Nothing like an outside offer to loosen the purse strings.
Out of curiosity, can I ask what the low offer for the second job was range wise?
	It topped out at just under $190k.  It was a weird situation.  The site was looking to transition from using a physics consulting group to hiring staff physicists.  They had an in-house physicist at a different clinic in the region, but he/she was non-ABR.
		US Med Phys make bank compared to your Canadian counterparts.
			AAAAAAND we get the fun of running 3D comparison plans for 10% of patients!
			But Canadians get free healthcare… or so they say.
				There's no free energy, and no free lunch
Good for you! Congrats.
