Post Title: Humanitarian opportunities in Medical Physics
Post Content: Does anyone know of any humanitarian opportunities in medical physics for students or graduates? Like global/rural health initiatives or non-governmental organizations (NGOs)? Thanks!
Comments: 
RAD-AID
	I had never heard of this before, thank you!
Medical physics for world benefit
	I’ve looked into this! On the MPWB website it mentions that there are opportunities to get involved if you become a member, but I can’t seem to find anything about what those opportunities actually are. Do you have any more information?
		No. I dont know more but i think you ll have to email them. The problem with the global initiatives to help is that sometimes they dont have established programs and opportunities come as you show the need for them
			Yes I think I’ll email them!
APSIG has often got volunteer opportunities in the Asia Pacific region that are very worthwhile 
https://www.betterhealthcaretechnology.org/volunteer-assignments/
	I’ll definitely look into this, thank you!
		I asked about this today. Apparently they are looking for oncology physicists for laos and Cambodia stints at the moment and a longer term 6 months+ role in Papua New Guinea i believe. So if you arent qualified it may not be suitable. But hey, if you don't ask you won't know right.
			Good to know!
Mississippi
	What’s in Mississippi?
		There was the job posting on MedphysUSA in early February where they were crying for physicists to come work in MS out of the goodness of their hearts even though it looks like a crappy place to live and raise a family. It sort of sounded like a humanitarian opportunity. I was being facetious in a Reddit sort of way...
Radiating hope is another to consider
	Thank you!
		Happy to help and happy you are taking this initiative on your career! 

To add the comment in another comment here, I'm in MPWB and I think in practice they seem to function more as a liason for other organizations to help others, rather than direct intervention. Radiating Hope is more direct intervention from what I've seen and I'm trying to join them as well for that reason.

Dr. Avery here at Penn started something along the lines of 'Global Health Initiative' (full name escapes me) which is more line with education volunteering from what I can gather and might be another option to consider.

Good luck and thank you for looking into these types of opportunities!
			That makes sense. Thank you for your response, I appreciate it!
I'm popping back into this ghost thread to tack another option into the mix: Rayos Cancer Center. They're focused on providing a structured course on Radiation Therapy topics (e.g. IMRT start-to-finish) to LMIC. Could be worth reaching out to them to see what if any volunteer needs they might have for medical physicist.
	Thank you so much for sharing!
