Post Title: Is Medical Physics (either therapy or imaging) a sedentary job?
Post Content: Engineer looking into changing careers to MP.  One thing I dislike about engineering jobs is that they are often sedentary.

What are most Medical Physics jobs like?
Comments: 
It can be both. As a therapy physicist, there are days where I’m sitting at my computer for hours checking charts, performing second checks, programming etc. There are also days where I am constantly running back and forth between machines, physicians, radiation safety calls to radiology. You won’t likely be as active as a radiation therapist but there will be days you are moving. 

That being said, aside from the daily tasks like checking charts that require you to be at your desk, a lot of the time you can choose to get up and walk around the department. In fact, I would HIGHLY encourage this practice as it improves relationships and allows you to see what’s going on. Lots of people think all we do is sit at the computer all day. Walk around. Get to the staff. See what’s going on. Frequently, you’ll gain important insight and will likely have a better idea of what’s going on the department. And don’t limit it to the accelerators. Nurses and front office staff need friends too!
	I was also an engineer who found that job profoundly boring. I made the switch to therapy MP and I’ve never made a better decision in my life.

Agree with the comment above. Choosing the clinic you work at determines how active your days are. Single linac shop with nothing else could get boring. A center with active HDR, LDR, SRS, IORT program(s) will keep you very engaged.
		I am also an engineer - once an engineer always an engineer.  But unlike the other engineer, I liked being an engineer.  Analysis and study is fun.  But in this fields there is less but still if you find engineering boring, you might find Med phys even worse.  Theres a chance you could always spend time focusing on a different aspect of the job and that might keep you entertained.  

Same things that interest me as an engineer entertain me: noticing a trend, plotting data (or writing code that will), etc.  One major difference explaining complex things to people less qualified than you … unlike in engineering companies the other party typically had some idea but here it requires some trust that they believe you cause they really don’t understand what you know.

Not to be demeaning but when I start explaining to them I realize they have no idea and hesitate cause I’m afraid i can’t explain it simpler if they don’t understand.  It’s sometimes easier to just have someone there they trust and after explaining have them confirm what you just said lol.

One thing is for sure.  Our kind engineers … in large groups is much more chill and collaborative.  In this field there is so much heterogeneity in personality and education, it will surprise you how different it is.  Don’t switch lol.  Stay happy and blissful.

If you want to move physically more, be a service engineer - working for varian or elekta or accuray.   They need people to install machines or service them.  You could also work in chip industry.  Same deal - they need service engineers.  There’s a huge shortage.  Pay surprisingly (without OT) is the same or more than your pay as an engineer, depending on which field.  Only downside is … you have to deal with crazy physicists as your customer… on second thought don’t be a service engineer.
			I’m curious what field you were in as an engineer, what type of engineer, etc?
				Lol you first
					I was mechanical, working in the healthcare field. That’s what introduced me to medical physics, I hadn’t even heard of it before that
						I was going to guess electrical engineering… I was a navy nuc so assessing performance and safety.  I once worked with an electrical engineer on a project and found their work very boring.  Nothing I imagined an electrical engineer would do.  Maybe there is a variety of work for them too though?  Our field is somewhat overlapping.  So I heard about it in various stages of my career.  I wonder sometimes what would have happened if I joined Med phys earlier.
Diagnostic - it's highly variable (you're gonna see that's the case w/ any medical physics job)

Some days, I do multiple surveys. My feet and back hurt from constant bending over and placing lucite and just standing around taking shots and loading equipment. Even this is highly variable; mammo takes a few hours but I'm on my feet. MRI takes a few hours too but I'm mostly seated and just going back and forth to setup new coils.

Other days, I review quality related issues, protocol management issues, attend meetings, read new papers, ~~watch youtube~~ do important research, etc etc etc.

This is at a large medical center, not consulting.
	I second this! IR/Fluro days are FAR from sedentary, as you are standing and walking around with heavy lead aprons (does not apply if you believe in Hormesis)
Driving 6 hours in a day? Sedentary. Running around testing 10 new ultrasound machines abd troubleshooting a gamma camera? Not sedentary. 

"Life is like the day in the life of a medical physicist. You never know what you're gonna get." -Forrest Gump, probably
