Post Title: STP 2023 Application
Post Content: Hi everyone,

I am a maths teacher in a secondary school in the UK and I am planning to apply for the STP in England this year. The applications open tomorrow 11:00 AM and I am aware that I will need to fill a personal statement as part of the application form which consists of writing about scientific skills (500 words), transferable skills (250 words) and physical skills (250 words). I satisfy the entry criteria as I have a master’s in science in physics (MSci) with a 1st grade classification and I feel pretty confident that I will fare well in the competition based on my university degree and transferable skills from it as well as from my previous jobs.

One thing I am unsure of is how to structure my personal statement if I want to apply for the medical physics (undefined) route. I know you need to relate your personal statement to the core specification and job description but if I want to apply to medical physics (undefined) then the job description is broad. How could I go about structuring the personal statement in this case? Please let me know your advice and tips.
Comments: 
I suspect it's trying to say make sure your personal statement is specific to medical physics and the STP, rather than Radiotherapy Vs Imaging. A lot of candidates will be applying to multiple graduate programs and will be tempted to put a generic personal statement, but if you want to address it state why you've chosen the undefined post rather than a specialism upfront. I was quite torn trying to pick between imaging and therapy in my training, I imagine it's pretty common because I've seen a lot of trainees be indecisive.

Oh, and to add to that, the person specification is quite key because it is probably quite closely related to the shortlister's marking scheme. When I apply to NHS type jobs I generally use it as a backbone making sure to hit each point in order to make it very easy and obvious for the reader to tick off my application against those requirements.
	So as long as I explain why I chose this route and why I am interested in it I should be fine (given that I matched my experience and skills to the core spec and NHS values)?
		Yes, and in your specific case, why the change from teaching. I'd be asking myself if there is sufficient evidence that you know what you're letting yourself in for. 

Unfortunately to be blunt, you kinda have to give a reason that you'll stick with this vocation after not sticking with a previous one.
			That’s a good point.

I have researched the STP extensively and have spoken with a lot of previous trainees as to what is expected as well as attended webinars and read STP trainees blogs. So I have a pretty good idea of the intensity and the demands of the programme.

I am changing from teaching for several reasons, however the one that stands out is the opportunity for growth for teaching is rather limited as opposed to with the STP. I also miss doing experiments and generally being involved in highly scientific practises. I chose teaching initially because I like working with people, and that aspect is still present with the STP in addition to the scientific aspect. So the STP really combines the best of two worlds for me.
I applied successfully back when it was a centralised recruitment, so I think the form has changed a bit since then. However, I would try and link all my relevant experiences, within those three categories, to the NHS Constitution with central themes of 'caring' and 'evidence-based practice'.

The assessers will largely consider: how much relevant experience the applicant has; how much they know about the role (showing they genuinely want the job, e.g. have you visited depts?); how much the applicant aligns with the NHS core values.

I don't think the amount of physicsy content matters hugely - it will be obvious from your experiences and degree that this is what your suited towards.

[EDIT] Also, they are training you up to be a Physicist. They want you to be suited to the role more as a person, rather than know everything about medical physics already. 

Hope that makes sense and isn't too vague, good luck!
	I hugely second this! Every single person that applies will have a physics degree so don't spend too much of the word count discussing that you like physics - show them you're excited to work in healthcare! 

Another good read is the AHCS Good Scientific Practice. If you can demonstrate you're already following maybe the professional practice / leadership domains that would be great.

Good luck!
		Will definitely give this a read. Thanks for the tip!
	Thank you this is really helpful. So my best approach here is to demonstrate interest in medical physics as a field and then focus my application on the core spec and NHS values (if I understood you correctly)?
		Absolutely! Good luck :)
