Post Title: What’s everyone doing for eMC 2nd checks?
Post Content: Hi all. Just as the title says, what is everyone currently for their e- second check. Currently if we don’t have it already listed in our brain book it is measured. But measured MU and the MU from eclipse can very significantly due to the irregular surface of the body that’s being treated. We have IMSURE for photons and it can also be used for electrons with some work. Is anyone using that or something or similar?  Would like to take some of the work away from measuring.
Comments: 
Currently, Radcalc and a home grown program, with a recourse to hand Calc if those fail.

But both of these programs run into issues when using eMC when the field is at 105ssd or more, or the patient body very curved/ the field isn't a perfectly en face beam on a flat contour like a simple tg73 Calc, which almost all second check programs are including hand Calcs.

ClearCalc which our institution is looking into also has some issues with their FSPB Algorithm for the same reasons, but they do have a RadMonteCarlo Algorithm available that when I've tested it doesn't have these issues and is very promising; since it's calculating dose like eclipse eMC is with the patient body. RadCalc I hear has monte Carlo but I haven't tested it.
We measure, and if there is a difference we recalc the cutout on a solid water geometry to determine the source of the discrepancy.
We use radcalc.  If that fails, then we do a verification plan on a flat water phantom in the tps and compare to radcalc again.  Further, if the field is small, then we measure.
Clearcalc and if it's greater than 5% we recalc on a water slab phantom in eclipse
Project the beam into a water phantom, then compare MU (RadCalc). That takes away heterogeneity and contour effects.
If we expect eMC calcs on a CT dataset with heterogeneities and contour changes to agree with a simple calc check why purchase and use the eMC algorithm in the first place?
	We don’t. That’s why I’m asking.  What are you using?
		Kind of a rhetorical or philosophical question though. Not meant to cause strife. Same can be said with photon calculations and second checks.
		Mobius or measurement if small
			Mobius does e- and photons? This would be ideal. But it would be a hard sell to administration.
				I really like mobius but the cost is very high. I originally got it with a TrueBeam purchase. It needs to updated but it’s hard to justify the cost of a server. HOWEVER, if you add up the cost of something like RadFormation over 5 years, it’s about even. The subscription model just makes it look cheaper. I think Mobius works better, financially, is when you have a full suite of Varian products and they help you out.
					Yes. You bring up a good point about the updates. I question how much varian is going to support these mobius products? We bought doselab several years ago and I don’t think they’ve done anything to update it. Yet they want to raise our software service contract to accommodate it.
						That’s a good question. Hope it doesn’t become the “Pinnacle” of varian. Wish the mobius server could be virtualized.
